Mabel, episode thirty-five: Delirium. In which two blind mice step into a pair
of waiting steel jaws.
[INTRO]
[BEEP]
ANNA: Mabel? Mabel, look at me – don’t – no no no no no no, wake up,
wake up, I need you to – I need you, wake up, please, please don’t –
[GASPING]
Okay. You can. You can do this. First things first. [LOUDER, TO THE HOUSE]
First things first, we need to get out of the –
[SNAKES VANISH]
– attic.
Mabel, can you hear me? God, I’m sorry – [SOUND OF A SLAP] Wake
up. Wake up, you have to –
[HOUSE HOWLS]
I don’t know! I don’t know what to do!

[MABEL WHIMPERS]
Baby. Come on. Look at me. Look at me, I know you can –
[HOUSE ROARS. WINDOW PANES RATTLE; DOORS SLAM ON THEIR
HINGES]
Is this your fault? Are you doing this? [NEAR-HYSTERIA] I won’t let you, I
won’t let you [GLITCHING] have her –
[BEEP]
MABEL: You. You. It’s always you, isn’t it? Always the predator, never the
prey. That’s not how you like it, is it? Mabel? Mabel? Is that me? [LAUGHS] I
don’t know. I never knew. As a child I dreamed of you, ate and breathed and
slept of you, and you integrated yourself in me like a tree growing through a
fence. Through concrete. Through stone. What was once unmitigated is now
an unmitigated disaster [LAUGHS] Right?

I’m right, aren’t I? I’m the right one? I never knew. I can’t tell. I couldn’t then
and I can’t now. That’s what feasting on the dead is like. Or with them. Every
pauper’s dumb supper. Get it? It’s a good joke. I’m full of them. Just ask.
[BEEP]
ANNA: [FADE IN TO WEIRD MURMURS FROM ANNA. GRADUALLY
BECOMES CLEARER AS SHE WHISPERS. THERE IS A DRAGGING SOUND,
LIKE A BODY]
…you’re okay. You’re okay. You’re okay. You’re okay. You’re okay.
[SLUMPING SOUND. ANNA BREATHES HEAVILY]
I thought I could use – what I can do, the shifting in me. I thought I could fix
you like that. I can trip up walls in the hill, I can mold it around me like. Moss,
or dirt. But I reached into you and there was only – [MUFFLES A SOB]
You always say I’m good. You always call me saint. Santa Anna, like the winds
that come down from the desert in – you say you’re the spider, you always
raging, always baring your teeth. But I remember sitting in the bathtub in my
mother’s house and making the conscious choice to let it all slip away. You

never did that. Not after Sally treated you like, like an animal, like worse, not
after she sent you away, not after the king kidnapped you down under the
hill, not when – you always move, you always move forwards, Mabel,
goodness is action, there is nothing good in stasis, in turning away from the
world, and I –
[AS THOUGH THROUGH GRITTED TEETH] – you made me promise. Back in
the hill. You made me promise if anything ever happened to you I wouldn’t –
make that same decision. Do you remember?
I’m taking your example. I’m moving forward. [SOUND OF AN AXE HITTING
THE WALL. THE HOUSE SCREAMS]
[BEEP]
MABEL: It’s cold in here. I scratch at the walls of my cage. I’ve made art.
That’s useful, isn’t it? It’s good to be useful, like the orchard, like the tool that
tills it. You wouldn’t know anything about that, being made of – hollow eyes
hollow mouth hollow organs hollow backed body bone structure all twisted
in knots in bannisters of a floating staircase, a delusion of thought, an orgy of
evidence of nothing at all. The facts of nonexistence. Doesn’t that – doesn’t
that make sense? Isn’t that –

-isn’t that what you’ve done? Drawn me as a chalk outline on the floor of a
crime scene? Split my flesh and spilt my blood on all the soap bubbles
clinging to every other? Right? I’m right aren’t you – I? Me. That’s me.
[LAUGHS NERVOUSLY] I know that. I’ve known that all my life. Just like I
know that I’m repeating myself. That’s all I’ve ever been able to do is repeat
myself, in slightly different iterations, millennia old water bubbles in a piece
of amber. I can always….there’s just…
[BEEP]
ANNA: [SCREAMING, GLITCHING]
That’s not fair! That’s not fair, that’s not – you – you’re cheating, I’ll burn you
to the goddamned –
[GASPS. SOUND OF CLOTH TEARING, SOMETHING STICKY, WET] Mother
– [PAIN NOISES] That’s. That’s great. I didn’t need this arm anyway. [WET
RIPPING; ANNA MUFFLES A SCREAM] Mabel?

Mabel, please –
This is like the first time. When I drank all that – the poison. Trapped in
between the walls and beams of the house. Only this time it’s worse, because
you’re here, and you’re –
I died for you. I’d do it again.
[BEEP]
MABEL: [CATCHES] I can see it. I can – I just have to keep my eye on her. On
you. Girl in the mirror, girl in the reflecting pool in Sally’s garden, girl in the
riverbed tangled with green weeds, girl in the moonlight gleaming off my
hair. Girl in the sunglasses of the shopkeeper in the bakery, girl in the copper
bar of the pub, girl in the blank stare of Lily, of Sally, of Korina, of Lauren, of –
don’t you get it? You get it, of course. I don’t think anyone else does, there’s
- she’s always there, curled up inside me. She comes out when I’m sleeping.
Like kudzu. Like the first colonizers.

Lily saw her once. Her face stretched and elongated for fear of what she had
brought into the house, what the house had wrought inside her belly and she
screamed and she wailed until her eyes stretched out of their sockets like
taffy and she hid under the bed, shaking. I couldn’t comfort her. I could not
tell her that I was made of her terror and confusion but there was – you don’t
get to hide it, they can always sniff you out. There’s always a smell. I was
never clean to them. Never once. That’s why Sally tried to take me to the
priest to tell him I was – I was –
[BEEP]
ANNA: – to be rational about it. That’s what I said, right? That’s what –
there’s nothing else –
You know the rules.
[THE HOUSE ROARS]
You’ve had your blood. You’ve had your pound of fucking flesh. I have made
promises to you, and kept those promises. But you know you’ve got me. You
know that, don’t you? That there’s nothing I wouldn’t do to help her?

So tell me. Name your price. I won’t argue. How can I save Mabel?
[HOUSE NOISES]
[ANNA LAUGHS, HELPLESS, HYSTERICAL]
[BEEP]
MABEL: I was almost sorry to have seen the fire, burning and burning, and I
couldn’t stop it but it was so beautiful – that was later, though. Much later.
Maybe not – maybe closer than I thought. There’s so many connecting
branches and twisting roots of this tree. I can never tell if I’m inside the
correct vein. Do you ever have that problem, girl who is not me? Girl in the
mirror, girl in the blood-cells, girl in the structure of the cage.

Girl whose life I ate.
[BEEP]
ANNA: : Then do it, if you’re so –
[GLITCHING ROAR. ANNA SCREAMS, MUFFLED, AS THOUGH INTO HER
HAND]
Okay. Okay. Okay. Mabel, it’s going to be okay.
[CLOTH MOVEMENTS]
Déjà vu. [LAUGHS] Or is it just what you said, a repeating cycle? Trecena and
tonalli revolving in unsynchronized, concentric circles. I’ve been here before,
but I am not the same as I was then. Are we allowed to be altered, as the
circles loop back around again and again? Are we allowed to remember what
we’ve learned?
I was here. Like this, and not like this. I was dying, then. But there were –
words, inked into my stomach. They faded, these are – carved. Deep cuts.
Not as bad as the slice bitten out of my arm, but still.
[SIGHS]

Are you ready, Mabel?
My first is an order: injure, or delete.
My second, a pronoun, a thing made discrete.
My third, damned spot, a command to expel –
Now what do you do with a cancerous cell?
What –
Fine. First is an – second pronoun, a thing made discrete. Pronouns are –
him, her, right? Discrete means – it? Second is it. Third – that’s Macbeth,
even I remember that. Out damned spot. What’s that quote from Macbeth?
Stars, hide your fires, let not light see my black and deep desires? I always
liked that. What do you do with cancer –
Cut it out.
[PAUSE]
Cut what out? The bullet? I already did, I cut it out back when – [LOUDER]
you’ll have to do better than that, you termite-infested rising damp riddled
cheat –
[BEEP]
MABEL: [TREMULOUS] I – I should have apologized. I should have, a long
time ago but I won’t. I won’t. I won’t. I won’t. I won’t. We are the same in this
regard, I think. I know. I won’t. You have never apologized for gnawing at the
root of me like rats, like vermin, like – like a snake at the root of the yew.
Under the hill the roots of every ancient tree twist at the high, high ceiling
like stars. Undulating, pale, death looming in the distance. Worming over
everything. Terrible whiteness. How could –
I know what I did to you. I know I – having this inside me is – [LAUGHS] Do
you remember Callie? So slight and so blonde and so sweet, constantly
worried about us, when we were climbing into the vegetable garden and
feasting on dandelions. When we screamed to the trees about all those faces
pressing in on us. She was always so kind, no matter what. And real. She was
so real. I even looked through a stone to be sure. And she was still there, just
the same, blond hair, freckles dusted lightly across her nose…not one bit of
her was a trick. It was novel. She didn’t laugh when we ate our bowl of

flowers. She didn’t laugh when I told her about the eels swarming inside our
gut, the venom – the poison they –
It doesn’t matter now. It didn’t even matter then. I remember. It’s not as clear
as I suspected. All those twisting narratives, rising and converging. Hard to
keep track of what was desperate fictionalization and what – what wasn’t.
What held fast and true and strong as the thread in the labyrinth. Weren’t we
both always trapped? Didn’t I also set you free?

Didn’t I? Didn’t I? I set us all free. Every common denominator. Every
ephemeral variable. There comes a point where the – things, they …they
loop back on themselves, like a Klein bottle. Both inside and outside. Where
the dregs live, the last of us, what’s left after – after. After I knew you were
real as a child I was so afraid of all the mirrors. I covered them in black like a
mourner. I was never terrified of ghosts until I realized you all knew how to
swim –
[BEEP]
ANNA: Mabel. I hope you can hear me. Some fragment of me, some particle.
Telling you I’m sorry. Telling you we – if we’re in this together, we’re in this
together. I wish I’d made you feel that you could talk to me, tell me the truth.
I wish I’d been able to make that clear, even if it isn’t your first inclination to
believe. I can’t begrudge you for that. I don’t begrudge you anything.
If you ever saw good in me, it was only reflected from you.
Okay. Again.
[GRADUALLY INCREASING ROAR; GLITCHING, ANNA BREATHING
HEAVILY, MUTTERING TO GEAR HERSELF UP FOR – SILENCE]
What? Why –
[SOUND OF MATCH BEING STRUCK, FLAME RUSHING]
[ANNA GASPS]
I don’t. I don’t know what that means. What does that –

‘GAG (Glu/E) to GUG (Val/V)’ over Fe, with an X through it, beside AG? I
have no idea what –
No, I do. Jesus. That’s the – V is Valine, an amino acid. Glu is. Glutamine?
No. Glutamic acid. And – fucking, genetic illnesses, when Valine replaces a
Glutamic acid beta globin on the – I don’t remember, one of the
chromosomes, that’s when you get sickle cell anemia. Sickle cell – and Fe is
iron, right? Because ferric oxide is rust? AG – what, what’s AG.
Sickle cell diseases are – genetic mutations lead to blood disorders. Red
blood cells end up being inflexible and malformed, they get tangled in
capillaries and cause things like ischaemia. You’re trying to – you’re giving
me an analogy, is that it? Iron is crossed out…it wasn’t a steel allergy, it was
the iron in the bullet. The iron caused – mutations in her cells? Blood
poisoning? That’s what you mean, right? Or something, something less
coherent, less scientific, but –
Cut it out. I have to. Cut out everything the bullet touched.
[SHAKY BREATH]
[BEEP]
MABEL: Sink or swim. That’s what they tell you, as children, as cells, as
mermaids, they tie anchors to your slippery sealskin and say, Now, drown, or:
adapt, and you must, mustn’t you? You have to learn to swim, or else be
eaten up by ghosts. By impressions of your former selves. I know that under
the skin they are hiding their sameness – the consistent sense of self that was
taken from me before I knew how to shape it inside my mouth. That’s the
flood. That’s what no one tells you in Sunday school – god is always testing
us. There was never an end to it. The water rises and converges in all the
secret niches of the world, its own private altars, and sets right what it finds
lacking. Fills it. A valentine to a lover, as necessary and precious. But for me
they – inside me there is nothing. Underneath the water and the light and the
earth and the howling is a hollow hill carved into the crevice of my spinal
cord –
[BEEP]
ANNA: AG is silver. Argent, isn’t it so stupid? I remembered because of this
book I read as a kid – there’s a character whose parents receive a prophecy

before he’s born warning them he could be destroyed by silver, only the
prophecy is really referencing someone whose last name is Argent – anyway.
I’m not afraid of blood. I will do what I have to do. Didn’t I say that? Can’t
you trust me, by now?
[BEEP]
MABEL: I saw. I wrote. I walked. I sang. I ate and ate and ate and ate you up
and I don’t regret it, you ghost, you monster, you death bride in the black
cliff over the black ocean, under the whirling of the stars in the ever darkness.
You are a story I wrote to sing myself to sleep. You are only a shadow of
every bleeding organ I possess. I plucked you from nothing. I can put you
back.

That makes me god. That makes you nothing. And the flood creeps into
nothing so easily, from treacherous, traitorous, murderous bitches with
millennia old grudges and far too much time on their hands. You are not
difficult to find. The branches of you cling to me so easily. I can feel them in
my veins, coursing, pulsating, growing new organs – and is this revenge? This
pain, this looming darkness, this iron, this civilization inflicting itself on nature,
on wildness? Didn’t you know that’s why we cannot abide it, the earth’s
blood, that it paved the way like hell to all those human constructs seeking
whom they may devour? Eternal death to tyrants, I suppose, [LAUGHS] and
that, too, looms in the corner of my brain, a white shadow with many rows of
teeth. But you have no right to impose your will on nature. And I will not let
you.
[BEEP]
ANNA: I was wearing a silver bracelet. Something my father got me before
he died. Just a chain with a clasp, nothing special. I whispered to it until it
smeared like butter, until it bubbled and melted and reformed, molecules
slipping over molecules into the shape of a silver blade, sharp as a scalpel. It
is the mildest of comforts to know I can still manipulate the world in this way.
The underworld, the inside-world. It doesn’t matter if I can’t fix you.
Baby. I’ve never called you that, to your waking self. You never had a mother
or a father. I wish I could be everything for you. Family, home, watchtower,
lighthouse. I am sorry for every way I’ve ever hurt you, including this.

[CUTTING NOISES]
[BEEP]
MABEL: I will swallow you whole for this. I will not cover the mirrors any
longer. They put their poison inside me and it grew, and it grew, and what
swims inside the water is long and curved and old and vicious and it did not
come from them, only unfurled itself from the stone egg of my body, the
hollow earth, the hollow hill, and from it will come a fury, a flood, a tyranny of
the few that will wrap you inside its colonizing chokehold and make you wish
you had never, ever tried to grow like a vine through the cracks in my soul
into the meat and stars of this world. That you had never learned to swim.
[BEEP]
ANNA: Mabel? Wake up, wake MABEL: Anna? Anna?
ANNA: Oh my god, you're – [HYSTERICAL NOISES] Are you – can – does
your arm hurt? How do you feel? Does it –
MABEL: You're here. It's you. I didn't leave, I thought ANNA: Leave where? No, you – I've got you, you're right –
MABEL: Are you okay? [HYSTERICAL] You're covered in blood
ANNA: I'm fine. I told you. Nothing can happen to me, not really. What
about you, though? Can you sit up?
MABEL: I think so. Why are you - what happened? I don't feel - it hurts [BOLTS UP, CLINGS TO ANNA FOR DEAR LIFE] I can't leave you, I didn't
want to leave you I was trying to keep her away but she was so close,
looming ANNA: Who? Who, Mabel, I – you're okay, I had to. I had to – field surgery, I
guess, your arm might. Take a while to heal. But the poison, it should be – it
is gone.
MABEL: Field surgery. Right. That makes sense. [LAUGHS] Sorry. It was - I'm
still a little delirious I think. I'm - you know you saved me again, right?

ANNA: I just. You wouldn't wake up. You wouldn't - do you know I'd do
anything? To make sure you're all right?
MABEL: I do. I do. I trust you implicitly. It's - instinct. That's why I had to keep
it - I'm sorry. My brain isn't working, still. [LAUGHS] If it ever was.
ANNA: You need to rest. And eat something. And probably a blood
transfusion wouldn't hurt.
MABEL: I think a blood transfusion might actually kill me.
ANNA: Depends on the. Transfuser. Hey, can you walk?
MABEL: Yes. I can. [PAUSE] Did you do that to your arm - yourself, or did
something - did someone ANNA: Both. Let me help you up. [PAUSE, BOTH PAINFULLY GETTING TO
THEIR FEET] I tried to take an axe to the house, it took offense.
MABEL: Sounds like something it would do. I'm sorry. I'm - I'm sorry to drag
you into all this, again, this mess of - [SIGHS] I know there's no point saying
that. I know you want to be here and I know I couldn't have made you be
here with me if you didn't but I - I'm just sorry. I would do anything. I would
do anything to give you an easier life. Safe passage through all this.
ANNA: What does an easier life look like?
MABEL: I don't know. I don't know. Maybe we lie around and feed each
other grapes.
ANNA: You know, in the – other world, when I worked at the care home, I
mostly helped people die. And when I worked as a live-in carer I was an
educated servant. You think you made my life vastly harder? Harder than
minimum wage and people dying without family, without dignity? Tell me the
truth: do you hate it, under the hill?
MABEL: [LONG PAUSE] No.
ANNA: Do you hate them, the people under the hill?
MABEL: No. It would be. Unkind. They just are what they are. Like me.

ANNA: Do you think I do?
MABEL: No. You are good. That isn't why but it's. A correlation. It's
important.
ANNA: You really couldn't hear me, could you? [PAUSE] You said before that
you know I chose this. To be here with you. That's true, but - I like it here,
Mabel. It's - vivid, it's. Feral. And civilized, too. Different modes of civilization.
It's, I don't know. Beyond everything else. What makes you think I want to go
back and pay bills and defrost my car and pretend to care about anything
that anyone ever says when I could be - here? When we both could be,
together?
MABEL: Nothing. I just want to be sure. And I am, now, Saint Anna. Every
part of me trusts every part of you.
ANNA: Good. That's all I want. [DOOR CREAKING] I think we can go back
now. At least there's nothing else we have to do after this.
MABEL: And the coronation.
ANNA: ...what?
MABEL: Your coronation. Under the hill. To take the king's place.
ANNA: My [BEEP]
[OUTRO]
Mabel is written by Becca De La Rosa and Mabel Martin and produced by
Becca De La Rosa; the voice of Mabel Martin is Mabel Martin, and the voice
of Anna Limon is Becca De La Rosa.
The music in this episode was by Bob Roberts, Kai Engel, Lee Rosvere, and
(morse), and all of it is available to download from the Free Music Archive at
freemusicarchive.org. For more information about this episode, including a
full tracklist and transcript, visit us online at mabelpodcast.com.

We rely on your help to keep Mabel going. If you like what we do, please
visit our Patreon at patreon.com/mabelpodcast and check out our range of
rewards.

