KING IN THE LABYRINTH

Mabel, episode 7: The King in the Labyrinth. In which the snake begins to eat its own
tail.

[INTRO:]
ANNA: – Anna Limon –
AUTOMATED FEMALE VOICE: – is not available. At the tone, please record your
message.
[BEEP]
MABEL: -– the matter is that you just can’t swing it, can you, it has to be your way or
nobody else’s. I’m not going to get pushed around anymore. You can’t just make me –
[BEEP]
Hi, Anna, right? It’s me. I mean – it’s Mabel, you don’t – you don’t know me. You left a
message for me awhile back and I’ve been trying to get ahold of you, but it’s just

difficult, where I am, sometimes, uh. The thing is that the reception isn’t great and
sometimes –
[BEEP]
[WATER; FIRE; RUNNING FOOTSTEPS; A BELL; DRUMS; LAUGHTER]
[BEEP]
Hi, Anna, right? It’s me. I mean – it’s Mabel, ha, you don’t – you don’t know me, right.
You left a message for me a few hours ago and I just wanted to touch – to touch base
from here. From. Where I am. Ah, so. I’m kind of – kind of swamped, right now, but I
wanted to talk to you about the house, just a few things, uh. So first of all, I really
appreciate everything you’re doing, I mean, I assume – I know that job’s not easy, and
not just anyone can do it, so thank you, really. I’m grateful.
I have some suggestions about – about everything, really, but uh. It can be tough,
being so isolated. I know, and sometimes it’s difficult not to get caught up in how
alone you are. Sometimes you miss things because you’re paying too much attention
to the wrong corners. But I grew up there, so I thought I’d offer you some advice, um.
So, I – I would not recommend going to the third floor at night, because – see the
hardwood floors up there are really old, and sometimes they get weak in certain areas.
Old houses require a lot of upkeep, and I know – I know there hasn’t been a lot done in
recent years, so I’m just, uh. Concerned about the safety of the place.
I also don’t think – you probably also shouldn’t go into the garden at night. Sometimes
foxes like to hide in the flower patches and they can get mean. They’re feral, you know,
and should just be left alone. There’s all these nooks and crannies down there that you
won’t…notice, at first, unless you’ve lived there awhile, and I’m – I’m afraid you could
get hurt, like sprain your ankle or something. So just, don’t go down there, it’s a hazard
and there’s nothing much to see, anyway. I can’t imagine it’s been kept up.
There’s also this spot, from the outside, in the light, you can see it from the tire swing –
a third window, mismatched, set oddly into the stone of the house. Try not to – pay too
much attention to that. When it was added at first it was my favorite place in the whole
world, because the window was – anyway, it used to be interesting, and then, like
everything else, the slow march of time killed it. It’s not a big deal, but don’t dwell on
why it’s there. Oh, and make sure you don’t [BEEP]

– talking about the individual, sure, but we aren’t. What you’re talking about is the
whole of them, and that’s just - it’s absurd. You can’t generalize an entire group and
you certainly can’t generalize me, because I’m not going to let you, you cannot have
this one last piece of myself that I have kept and –
[DISTORTED GARBLED VOICES, UNINTELLIGIBLE CONVERSATION/RESPONSE]
I am not moon and mirror, I am flesh and bone, see? Do you see where I –
[DISTORDED GARBLED VOICES GET LOUDER AND LOUDER]
Well, they don’t know what they’re asking for, do they? Should I show them? Should I
show –
[BEEP]
Hi, Anna, right? It’s me. I mean. – it’s Mabel, you don’t – you don’t know me. You left a
message on the underside of an oak leaf and I only just got it today, because
sometimes the wind lags and it gets lazy, so if you’re having trouble just make sure you
give it a good smack, otherwise it won’t be intimidated and it’ll just sit there, and you
also have to be really careful to –
[BEEP]
[SINGING]
[BEEP]
Hi, this is Mabel Martin. I’m not sure if –
[DISTORTION]
[AWAY FROM PHONE] Come on. Be sporting. Be fair. Come on. You have to give me
a hint, at least, a clue. Am I getting through? [INTO PHONE] Hello? Hello? Can you
hear me? [AWAY FROM PHONE] Can she hear me?
[DISTORTION]
Play fair. Play fair. These are – the rules. You have to follow the rules, you invented the
rules, you have to follow them, you can’t just make up new ones whenever you like and
make –
[BEEP]

This isn’t you, is it? This is just me. Hello Mabel, hello hello. You’ve reached Mabel
Martin. No, you haven’t.
It’s nothing new, I guess. I used to talk to the girl in the mirror when I was a child, all
the time. I knew, always, that she and I were – we weren’t the same. I knew that her
face wasn’t mine.
So this is just like that. Catharsis. God knows I’m due for some, right? No – no, that’s
not how anything works. We don’t get what we’re due, or what we’re owed, we only
get what we get, and we can crumble and cry about it or we can make do. I’ve made
do. The girl in the mirror, maybe she wasn’t so lucky. I don’t know. Like I said, our faces
didn’t match, not really. She was scarred on the wrong side, and now we have nothing
in common at all, because I’m free, and she’s just –
[DISTORTED GARBLED VOICES]
What? What are you going to do? What exactly are you going to do if I tell everyone
that –
[BEEP]
I mean – what’s his goddamn problem, anyway? Does everything have to be like this all
the time, so theatrical? Couldn’t he, I don’t know, calm down?
That’s probably a stupid question. You know, I don’t – I don’t care. Sometimes those
are the only kinds of questions that mean anything. Like: who am I talking to? Will they
respond? Where is this signal coming from? Have you ever seen a moon so red it made
your blood look white? Have you ever heard a fox scream?
Have you ever heard a fox scream, Anna? It sounds like someone dying. I was a little
girl, once, and I heard this – this awful noise, this scream, like a baby crying or a woman
in trouble – I got out of bed, in the middle of the night, and ran down the stairs, all of
them creaking, you know, they do that when you don’t want them to, because they’re
always trying to get you in trouble –
Anyway. I ran out the door and down the hill. Next to the moonflower patch there was
this fox. I’ve always loved foxes, all animals really, but especially when I was little, and
so I – reached out to it, tried to see if it was injured, because of the way it had
screamed and it –
It snapped at me. It snapped at me and then, I swear on my life, on my freedom, it
laughed. It threw back its pointed little head and laughed at me in the moonlight, and

then sprinted off and left me with my fingertips bleeding into the earth. I swear to you,
to the girl in the mirror – this fox knew I would come running, it knew that I would want
to help and it used that to hurt me. Be careful when someone needs help, because,
Anna – sometimes they don’t. Sometimes they just want to know how to hurt you.
My grandmother was so angry with me that night. I came into the house all crying, you
know, what a baby, and then of course there was endless fussing over something that
was essentially a papercut, and when she’d found out what I’d done – god, I’d never
been yelled at like that, not even when I – went down the staircase on a cookie tray or
ate all that chocolate in one sitting. My grandmother, she’s not – she’s not really the
yelling type. I’d do terrible things, and she’d just stand there, disappointed, with her
face all scrunched up and that was worse, somehow, that she wouldn’t raise her voice
to me, like I wasn’t worth it. That’s why – after the fox – I don’t know, it pulled
something from me, something hard, and harsh and yearning and then I – then the girl
in the mirror just changed, she changed, and it –
We didn’t get along. We’d fight. Not my grandmother, the other – the other girl, the
one who lived in the mirror. Although my grandmother and I fought too, I guess,
especially when I wouldn’t stop leaving the house. I covered all the mirrors with black
sheets. She was so angry. And then she put glass in my food and killed me. Ha! I’m just
kidding. She did kill me though, just later. There’s more than one way to kill someone.
And it’s not as if she knew that it would make me so –
Anyway. Oh, Anna. He said you are looking for me, looking for Mabel Martin, the girl
who eats too much cake and drinks too much wine straight from the bottle, the girl
who loves her family fiercely but never speaks to them, the girl - He said, she is looking
for Mabel Martin. That’s me – Mabel. But I am not myself. I don’t think I’ve been my
real self for a very long time.
[DISTORTION]
What? What? What? What? What? What?
[DISTORTION]
Anna, listen. Please take care of the house. It means so much to – to Sally. She loves
that house more than I can ever convey to you, more than anyone has a right to love
anything. It’s like – like a religion. People don’t- they don’t love like that anymore. They
don’t even love each other like that anymore, let alone something that just – stands
there. Something created. We’re bad gods. We let all our works rot into the ground.

And the house, it remembers, it knows. The house isn’t haunted, I know a lot of people
think that, because it’s so – the house isn’t haunted, but it is a haunting, in itself. It
remembers, it remembers everything, every stitch and cross, every scratch in the
hardwood floors and rings from drinks left to sweat without a coaster. It will either
resent you or protect you, and you need its protection, Anna. Listen to me: I never
broke my ankle running down the stairs. I never bashed my head into the banister
playing kings and robbers. The dark wood curved around me in love, even when I
slammed my head into it, when I was pushed down the stairs, or when I – listen. What
you love protects you. In the whole of my childhood in that house I never got a scratch
on me. Even when I tried, a little bit, nothing stuck. Nothing could hurt me. And you
know what? After awhile – after awhile, that isn’t comforting. It’s just stifling.
[BEEP]
Hi, Anna, right? It’s me. I mean – it’s Mabel, you don’t – you don’t know me. You left a
message for me awhile back, about the power outages and the rest of the problems
with the house, and I’ve been trying to get ahold of you, but it’s just difficult, where I
am, sometimes, uh. The reception isn’t great, where I am, uh. Where I am. Anyway! It’s
an old house, um, these things happen. The wood and stone, it has a will of its own. It’s
sat too long in the dark. You have to tell it who’s in charge and make it fear you. You
have to grab it by its roots and shake it into submission, make a yoke of what it loves.
And then it will listen. Isn’t that how you get anything done?
[OUTRO:]
This episode of Mabel was guest-written by Mabel Martin, and produced by Becca De
La Rosa. The voice of Mabel Martin is [censored] and the voice of Anna Limon is Becca
De La Rosa. The music in this episode was by Ars Sonor, 2Kutup, Bluedark, a k u a, c4,
Andrew Sacco, i AM esper, Hallock Hill, and (morse), and all of it is available to
download from the Free Music Archive at freemusicarchive.org. For more information
about Mabel, including a full tracklist for each episode, visit us online at
mabelpodcast.com, or on Twitter, @podcastmabel.

