C OALESC ENC E

Mabel, episode twenty-four: Coalescence. In which two halves occasionally
make a whole.
[INTRO]
ANNA: - Anna Limon –
AUTOMATED TELEPHONE VOICE: - is not available. At the tone, please
record your message.
[BEEP]

MABEL: It’s - she - the way she closed up like a fist I killed someone. I killed someone. I killed someone I killed someone I killed
someone I killed someone [CRYING] Anna, Anna, I did it - I - no, it’s. It isn’t true, it isn’t - it’s not real. I
can’t blame you for this, Anna. I killed someone, I killed someone. It would
be easy to lay this at your feet, like an offering, a gift, the work of a creature
who couldn’t possibly know better. A cat leaving food for its big, dumb, silly,
good cohabitant. A mouse, a bird, a stoat at your doorstep. But animals only
follow their instincts. They are pure in a way I am not. I knew what I was
doing. I knew.

It isn’t your fault, Anna. It isn’t. I don’t want - I don’t want you to - you can
hate me, please hate me, please consign me to the hell that exists without
you in it, the despair of the endless, godless pit - but don’t - it isn’t your fault.
None of this is your fault. I need you to know that. I need you to. My family my mother and her mother and her mother and her mother and her mother
the ocean and the moon and the stars and the living dark all coalescing into
the curse come to bear down upon the Martin house and the Martin name
and the Martin blood, my blood, Anna, its impurity infecting you –
[STATIC]
ANNA: – something I never told you before, something I never told
anyone. I used to be obsessed with – god, how do I explain? With derealising myself, with depersonalizing the world around me. I used to wait
until everyone in the house was asleep and pick up my sister’s hand-mirror,
the one she kept on her desk, and walk around the dark house with it cradled
at my chest, looking down so I could see everything – everything backwards,
everything its anti-self, and I’d just. Walk and walk the house up and down
over and over and over until every solid thing, every known thing was made
unfamiliar. Like even then I was trying to walk myself backwards into your
kingdom.
[STATIC]
MABEL: I just want you to get out. Can you find your way out of me, do you
think? Out of the labyrinth of me? I’ll set myself on fire to give you light. I
don’t want you to be lost. I don’t want you to be stuck. I just want you to be
free, and joyous, and buoyant.
[CRYING]
Her throat under me - the way it cracked –
[STATIC]
ANNA: I dreamed about her, about you killing her. I was off to one side
watching you do it and I was her, too, I could feel all the twigs and kindling of
my neck crick and crackle when you put your hands around me, and both of
us, both of the mes, were laughing. It wasn’t a nightmare. I woke up – Mabel,
I woke up needing you, you artery ripped loose from me all bloody and
twining. They are singing in the depths of the hill. Time rattles on its hinges

down here. The king is unthroned now, all bones and sinew and ligament, his
crown wound from dead leaves, dry bark, bare thorns, red holly berries,
icicles. He paces the underearth like a black cat. This will be my first season
down here. Or is it – ? Is it longer? How long have I – ? What day is it, Mabel?
What month? What year? How long have I been sleeping underneath this
hawthorn tree? If I crawl out – if I ever crawl out – will the whole world be
changed, my family dead, me an old woman and you long
gone…somewhere? Where, where would you go? How could you leave me?

[BEEP]

MABEL: - the door, the trap, the way - I can’t do it, there’s no moon, there’s
no sun, there’s no impetus for the land to split open and let me [SIGHS] If this was a fair story, you would have already come back to me,
Anna. Killing her would have done it. Isn’t that what they say in all the old
books, that destroying the stick creature brings back flesh, brings back
warmth and comfort and your loved ones to the world? You would be here
now, not stuck in the wet earth of me, the land of eternal twilight. If only they
ever followed their own rules.
Instead I have to do it myself. Like every other goddamn thing.
[BEEP]
[WALKING]
MABEL: Alright. Alright. I can do it. You can do it, gillygirl. You can do it for
Anna. For Anna.
[RUNNING]
Hey. Hey!
[DISTANT HOUSE NOISES]
I’ve come to barter!
[HOUSE ROARING]

Right, we had a volatile conversation. (laughs) I will not apologize for burning
you to a husk of yourself. Fire purifies. Anyway, you started it. I did what I had
to. And see how I have kept my promise? Here I am, bloodied and burnt,
killer and curer.
[HOUSE NOISES]
We both know you were going to get me back one way or another, eat me
alive. That’s what you want, isn’t it? Isn’t that what you’ve always wanted,
since the flesh and bark of me kicked into the world? Since I crawled burnt
out of the grinning mirror and wrapped myself up in a girl’s life? Oh, I
remember everything. I remember the stairs and the attic and the parlor and
the basement and the endless dark of the hallways. Do you think I’m as fickle
as a human?
[HOUSE NOISES]
Don’t whine. It makes you repulsive. Here!
[THROWING SOUND]
A braid of my hair, a birch rod of my blood, a vine torn from my bone. Three
times three is a vow. What did I tell you? I’m here, aren’t I? So come on! Let
me in! Let me in, you old, pathetic coward [HOUSE SCREAMS, DEVOURS]
[BEEP]
[GARBLED SCREAMING]
[BEEP]
[GARBLED SCREAMING]
ANNA: Mabel?
MABEL: I didn’t - I killed you, you’re ANNA: How did you – what’s – you’re bleeding, what –

MABEL: How dare you take her face again, do you want me to burn you
alive ANNA: are you – are those matches? What do you think you’re doing?
MABEL: I’m going to - Anna? Is it - is this really you, are you - are you here?
ANNA: Of course I’m here, I’ve been here the whole – what are you doing
here, how did you – oh my god, Mabel, are you –
MABEL: It’s fine, I’m - I’m not hurt, it’s not - serious, don’t worry about me,
why are you here, I thought - I thought you got out, maybe, I thought you left
ANNA: It’s fine? You’re – half your hair is – what happened to your arm? Let
me –
MABEL: No! I’m okay! You don’t have to fix me up! You have to get out of
here!
ANNA: Out of where? Where are we? What did you – what did you do?
MABEL: I - it’s nothing to do with you!
ANNA: It’s nothing – what are you talking about?
MABEL: Forget about me. I think if we just look for a way out I can talk to it
and let it - let it let you go, maybe, if you just give me a bit ANNA: Are you – you just – oh my god, Mabel, are you seriously – you turn
up out of, out of nowhere, and you’re just –
MABEL: I do not have time for this, you can be angry at me later, you can
scream and rage at me when you’re not in danger anymore ANNA: You? Do not have time for this? I have been stuck down here in the
dark with nothing but your voice going on and on and on about oh, how
terrible you are and oh, how I should just forget you and on, and on, and on,
and now that you’re – I don’t know, what are you! What are you? You don’t
have time for this? I can’t –

MABEL: Look at me! I’m just - I’m not even a person anymore, I never was,
you don’t know anything, you think you sacrificed yourself for me when all I
wanted was for you to get out ANNA: God, so which one is it? Am I the martyr or are you? We can’t both
be the sacrificial lamb, one of us has got to be –
MABEL: The knife? Oh, Anna, Saint Anna, we just trade off being the knife,
and today it’s me, the bitch queen of hell, I’m going to push you out of here
if it’s the last thing I do because otherwise this just never ends, it never ends,
it never ANNA: [shoving NOISES] Will you just be quiet for one – god – damned –
minute –
MABEL: [LAUGHS]
ANNA: Why are you – [ALSO LAUGHS]
MABEL: There are other ways to get me to shut up, you know.
ANNA: I’ve been trapped in this place for – a while. This seemed like the
best option.
MABEL: Yeah. You’re - very strong. Did you…want to let me go, or…
ANNA: …Not yet.
MABEL: Doesn’t - feel so bad when you do it.
ANNA: Really, though. How did you [HOUSE NOISES]
MABEL: Go, go go go go go - !
[RUNNING]
[BEEP]
[HOWLING; ROARING]
[BEEP]

MABEL: - not a linear thing, it’s - a cycle, a constant recurring mess ANNA: Okay, but I asked you how you got down here. Do you want to
maybe try that again?
MABEL: I am answering! It’s repetition, I - I was in the garden, and I killed
you - not you but - the other - [HYPERVENTILATES]
ANNA: Calm down. Look at me.
MABEL: Yes. It’s - I’m sorry. I was - after I - before all that, I told the
house...something. Made a promise.
ANNA: It wants you.
MABEL: I know. I thought I could - leverage that, maybe. To get you out. To
free you. It wouldn’t let me leave, before, when I tried to, and then I had to
burn down the entire south wing to get out ANNA: You did what?
MABEL: I - so what? I burned it down. It wouldn’t let me out so I set it on
fire. It’s not unreasonable, it’s my house ANNA: It’s my house! I didn’t even – I didn’t even know it had a south
wing! You burned –
MABEL: Oh, your house, my house, who cares! It wouldn’t let me leave! I
was trying to help you! And anyway I’m not going to be trapped again ANNA: You were trying to help me? By burning down my house, getting
yourself thrown back in here, almost burning me down –
MABEL: No, that was just - I thought you were someone - something else.
ANNA: [PAUSE] Do you still think that?
MABEL: No. [CRIES] I don’t think so. I don’t want to ANNA: Stop, stop. Mabel, don’t. It’s me. It’s me, I promise.

MABEL: I believe you. I always believe you. I’m - it’s okay, I’m fine. Sorry.
ANNA: You keep saying that.
MABEL: It’s my fault. I should have - warned you away, a long time ago, I
should have let you go, instead of - I just. It’s my fault you’re here. You
shouldn’t be.
ANNA: No, you’re right. I forgot you’re responsible for every terrible thing
that happens to me and everyone else. You’re just that wicked, just that bad,
aren’t you?
MABEL: [LAUGHS] Oh, Anna. I’ll bet you fit right in under the hill.
ANNA: Tell me, how did you fit in down here? They like riddles, they like
girls who rig every game. What do you want me to say? Do you want me to
apologise for all the hours I’ve spent listening to you? I tried to claw you out
of my ear drums, you know that? But nothing worked, I couldn’t stop hearing
you, all your grandiose self pity and your –
MABEL: No one. Made you. Save me. So did you do it of your own free will
or did I chain you to me? I’m sorry for - for talking at you constantly, that can
be remedied, I can get you out of here and you won’t have to deal with
anything like this ever again ANNA: You’re right. You’re right! No one made me save you, I chose to. So
how can it be your fault? How can everything be your fault? Am I
autonomous or am I an automaton? Which one is it?
MABEL: I don’t know, I don’t know, why don’t you claw that out of your ears
ANNA: You’re always so right. It must be such a burden. I must hate you,
isn’t that it? That’s why I’m down here, that’s why I did all this, because I want
you gone. God, you’re so clever! You just see right to the heart of everything,
Mabel Martin with her ghost-green eyes, what’s it like to know everything so
perfectly –
MABEL: [LAUGHS] It’s just no fun at all, Anna. Saint Anna. With your
impetuous hair and your pretty skin. I can fictionalize you too. [PAUSES] I
heard you, you know.

ANNA: Did you hear me call myself terrible, say all of this was my fault?
MABEL: [CHEERFULLY] Nope. But I heard you command me not to leave
you. I liked that.
ANNA: So you’re just following orders?
MABEL: Yes, that’s me, Mabel Martin, the obedient girl. I am with you
because I want to be. That’s all.
ANNA: I’m here because I want to be. [PAUSE] I want you here.
MABEL: Good. Good.
ANNA: I guess I know what I’d do if I met my best friend in hell.
MABEL: Push her against a wall?
ANNA: You were asking for that.
MABEL: Well. I mean, yeah.
ANNA: You admit it?
MABEL: Christ-child, Anna, do I have to beg –
[GENERAL SCUFFLING, GASPING]
MABEL: Right. Okay. Yep. So - so ANNA: I didn’t – I – I think I missed you.
MABEL: I don’t - I don’t know what to say. [LAUGHS] It might be easier to
fight with you. I know how to - defend myself. I’m not sure I know how to
respond to genuine affection.
ANNA: I’m still mad at you, if that helps.
MABEL: It does. I almost became self-aware.
ANNA: God, can you imagine?

MABEL: Will you - do it again?
ANNA: Do what? Yell at you?
MABEL: No, not - nevermind. We still need to figure out how we’re going to
get you out of this place.
ANNA: We? We never agreed I was going to –
MABEL: Well, there is no democracy in Fairy Hill, so I’m going to make sure
you leave one way or another ANNA: You think you can force me to do anything I don’t want to do?
MABEL: Really? Really? After you couldn’t claw me out, after you had to
listen to the same thing over and over again, after you were here in the dark
with the water and the moon and the king in the labyrinth - you don’t want to
leave?
ANNA: I didn’t say – I’m not leaving without you. All right? I’m not.
MABEL: Well - too bad, Anna! Too damn bad! I can’t leave, I’m stuck here
forever, I made a promise ANNA: Jealous of my martyrdom? Couldn’t stand all that mortification
falling only to me? Had to get yourself a piece, did you?
MABEL: Yeah, because that’s what I want! To be stuck here! That’s why I’ve
tried desperately to leave for literally my entire life, only to have barter myself
for you! Why don’t you crawl back to your normal friends and your normal life
that you had, that’s waiting for you, away from all this rot. I am not jealous of
you cutting pieces off of yourself for someone you don’t even want to hear.
[LAUGHS] But you’re right. I am jealous of your life. Go back to your family,
Anna. Go back to someone who wants you.
ANNA: I’m sorry you had to barter yourself for me. I’m sorry – no, really, I’m
sorry to be such an obligation to you. [SOUNDS OF MOVING AWAY,
WALKING BACK] You know what? Maybe I haven’t lived my whole life in a
haunted mansion with the black underearth howling at my heels, maybe I
haven’t seen what you’ve seen, but I’m not stupid. Say what you want about
me, Mabel, but don’t ever lie to me. I know exactly what you want.

MABEL: I didn’t lie. I can’t. I just - I don’t know what you want from me.
Usually I know. But I don’t, with you. It’s...frustrating.
ANNA: I want – it doesn’t matter. [SIGHS] You bartered with the house once
already. Why can’t you do it again, so we can both leave?
MABEL: It does matter. What you want - it matters to me, Anna.
ANNA: Let’s just find a way out.
MABEL: I will.
ANNA: Good.
MABEL: - if you never say that again.
ANNA: No wonder they didn’t want to let you go.
MABEL: Yes, I’m easily commodified or whatever. Agree to my terms. I have
an idea.
ANNA: You’re such a brat.
MABEL: Right you are. Do you agree or not? I’m very patient.
ANNA: Mother of – fine. Tell me your idea.
MABEL: I promised the house I would always come back to it. [PAUSES] I
mean, before I burned it down. That made it angry, for some reason.
ANNA: For some reason.
MABEL: Mm. Anyway, so this last time - I didn’t know how else to try and
find you, except to bargain with it. I gave it my - some things that it can use
to bind me to it, permanently. But it’s - the house is a physical manifestation,
a physical presence. My gift to it has to be hidden somewhere. If we can find
it, maybe - I don’t know. Maybe we can use it to get out, somehow. It’s
something, anyway.
ANNA: Any clue where?
MABEL: Um. No.

[BEEP]

[WALKING, IN SILENCE, UNTIL THE TWO OF THEM SPEAK AT THE SAME
TIME]
MABEL: So ANNA: I shouldn’t have said –
[BOTH STOP TALKING]
MABEL: No, no, go ahead.
ANNA: It doesn’t – ugh.
MABEL: [LAUGHS]
ANNA: Do you ever think that –
MABEL: Think what?
ANNA: I heard everything you said.
MABEL: I know.
ANNA: I heard you – the way you talked about me. It’s not – I’m not –
MABEL: You’re not what?
ANNA: Nothing.
MABEL: You are not god? You are not holy? You are not beloved, and
good, and bright, and ANNA: Stop, stop it. Jesus, stop.
MABEL: Actually, in this scenario, I would be Lucifer.
ANNA: Just the devil on my shoulder?
MABEL: Your favorite, I hope.

ANNA: Do you really not know what I want from you?
MABEL: I am afraid of influencing you unduly.
ANNA: Wait, look. What is that?
MABEL: A - door, I think.
ANNA: Kind of - Chekov’s gun, isn’t it? If there’s a door in the first act –
MABEL: So literary. It could be a trap.
ANNA: The house doesn’t want to trap you. It wants you fair and square.
MABEL: No, it’s - you’re right. You’re probably right.
[DOOR GROANING OPEN]
ANNA: It’s - oh. [PAUSE] Do you still have those matches?
MABEL: Always.
ANNA: Which one of us is Theseus now?
MABEL: Both? Neither? Who gets to kill the bull?
ANNA: Only god.
MABEL: So, you, then. Fine.
ANNA: I set myself up for that one.
MABEL: You surely did, Saint Anna.
ANNA: You have to stop calling me that.
MABEL: Mm. Do I? Or what?
ANNA: You want me to make you?
MABEL: A little bit, yes. [PAUSES] We’re. Going off-script, a bit.

ANNA: What’s the script? The two heroines swashbuckle into the labyrinth
to kill the monster?
MABEL: No. I told you - the monster is me. [LIGHTS MATCH]
ANNA: You’re right, I forgot. You’re every monster under every bed, you’re
the poison running through the veins of the house, you’re the blight on the
Martin land - does it ever get confusing, all these different boulders you have
to keep pushing endlessly up that hill?
MABEL: Dear me. We have very different ideas of villainy. I’m having a
grand old time.
ANNA: As long as you’re happy, King Mabel.
MABEL: [LAUGHS]
[HOUSE SCREAMS]
ANNA: Shit, he’s – god damn it, can you hear – we have to –
MABEL: Will you just run, I can handle THE KING IN THE LABYRINTH: Don’t give the farmer his fun - fun - fun he can get by without his rabbit pie - so run, rabbit, run, rabbit, run. Run.
Run.
[ROARING]
ANNA: I’m not leaving you to him –
MABEL: Just get out! Just get ANNA: Listen to me, you stubborn changeling brat, I’m not leaving
without you. I’m not leaving you again, do you hear me? If the house wants
you fair and square, if it wants you in one piece, it’s just going to have to let
us [ALL NOISES SUDDENLY STOP]
ANNA: - out.

MABEL: Well, that’s. Odd.
ANNA: Did he just - disappear? Or did we?
MABEL: No, it’s - you just said. You made a deal with it. Or him. Or me. Or
whatever this place really is.
ANNA: I didn’t make a deal, I – I gave an order.
MABEL: Anna - the house - it’s - it’s in your name. You own it. The estate.
Everything.
ANNA: Those – those things matter, don’t they? Ownership, property rights.
It gives me – what does it give me?
MABEL: Power over physicality, over - over the manifestation of ANNA: – matter?
MABEL: Yes, I - I think. Probably over any construct grounded in the laws of
- feudalistic hierarchies, the way they are under the hill. Older, crueler, less
nuanced, more morally complicated. [PAUSES] Probably...over me, too.
[LAUGHS] What was that about you not being god?
ANNA: You are. Insufferably. Smug.
MABEL: You don’t seem to be suffering too greatly.
ANNA: On the other hand, you’re still bleeding.
MABEL: I’ve had worse.
ANNA: And I’ve gone to nursing school. Let me see.
MABEL: I - I don’t want to. I mean. No, thank you.
ANNA: You’re trying so hard to be a person.
MABEL: Failing, clearly.
ANNA: Neither of us are people. Not anymore. If we ever were.

MABEL: Ha, sure. We’re just the same. What was nursing school like?
ANNA: Not that much different from expensive boarding school, I’d guess.
MABEL: No, they got very cross when I’d stitch things up, there. How do
you know about that, anyway?
ANNA: I put on a better person face than you do. People talked to me. Your
grandmother, for one.
MABEL: That’s nice. I hope dear old dead Sally talked about how she left nevermind. It’s not important. What are we going to do about leaving?
ANNA: It’s not important?
MABEL: No.
ANNA: I don’t know how you can - [STOPS, BREATHES] I know how you see
me, but you don’t – you have no idea how I see you. You don’t know what
you mean to me. You don’t know anything.
MABEL: I don’t know anything. Alright. Well, I know what I can infer from
your behavior. I suppose that’s it.
ANNA: What behaviour? How I tried to save you?
MABEL: Yes.
ANNA: Yeah, I can see how you would infer from that how unimportant I
think you are.
MABEL: Did I say that? No, I did not. I cut myself off from whining about
how my gr - how Sally hated me even when I was a child in an anecdote that
would have bored us all to tears. Pardon me.
ANNA: Nothing about you bores me to tears. You’re – never mind.
MABEL: I’m what?
ANNA: You’re the only one who doesn’t bore me. You’re...you’re endlessly –
you’re endless.

MABEL: [QUIET] Oh.
ANNA: Anyway.
MABEL: Doesn’t - does it bother you, then? That I’m - not fixed? That’s - it’s
kind of why you’re trapped, isn’t it?
ANNA: I’m trapped because of a choice I made. You know that. [SIGHS] It
bothers me that you won’t let me look at your arm. That’s it.
MABEL: You’ll - you’re going to be angry if you do.
ANNA: I told you, I’m angry at you already.
MABEL: Fine. Don’t yell.
[VINE NOISES; CLOTH AND SKIN]
ANNA: Jesus Christ, Mabel, what the –
MABEL: It’s not that bad, calm down!
ANNA: I can see your bone, you want me to calm down - ?
MABEL: It’s not important. It doesn’t matter.
ANNA: Stop saying that.
MABEL: I mean it’s - it’s over and done with, is all. There’s nothing I can do
about it now, there’s no point getting upset.
ANNA: Maybe not for you. You’re insanely cavalier with your own self, you
know that?
MABEL: It’s not my own self. Or it’s - only one of them. I don’t know.
ANNA: I forgot. You – willed yourself to the house, the way Sally willed the
house to me.
MABEL: Right, yes, all of my inheritance is yours, of course, obviously.

ANNA: You said I had power. How much, do you think?
MABEL: Why?
ANNA: I don’t know. I’m not sure. Let me try - this is so stupid. [CLEARS
THROAT] You moved the walls of the labyrinth before. Do it again. Bring us
to Mabel’s – gift.
[HOUSE NOISES]
MABEL: Well, it heard you. [COUGHS] Are you sure you were commanding
enough? You always sound sort of sweet, to me.
ANNA: It worked, didn’t it? I mean – we’re somewhere. Do you see – ?
MABEL: It’s too dark. I’m going to light - I’ll light something. [MATCH
LIGHTS]
ANNA: What did you – is that – Jesus.
MABEL: I’ll put it out before it gets to what’s left of my hair.
ANNA: Oh, wonderful. As long as you do that. [PAUSE] Is that it, over there?
MABEL: I think so. I’ll go get it, don’t ANNA: No, I’ve got it, there’s – what – [DROPPING, SHUFFLING SOUNDS]
That’s just. That’s amazing. I was wondering where that missing piece of your
ulna went, thank god you’ve kept it safe, I was starting to worry! What else you did this for – you did this to yourself, you did it – why, Mabel? For me?
Look at me! Did you do this for me?
MABEL: I had to. The house wouldn’t - it’s not your fault, it was my decision,
you don’t have to feel - I chose to, alright? I’m not upset. It doesn’t bother
me.
ANNA: It doesn’t bother you that part of your arm is just – torn out, that
you’re bleeding and – it bothers me, I can’t –
MABEL: Don’t be - it’s okay, I’m fine, really, it’s not going to - nothing’s
permanent, for me. It won’t - take. I had to find a way back to you. I’m sorry.

ANNA: You shouldn’t have done that.
MABEL: Maybe not. I just wanted - [INEXPLICABLE NOISES] what the hell ANNA: [at the same time] How is that - ! Come here, let me see, how did
you – how did you do that?
MABEL: Oh, I. I really do not think that was me, Anna.
ANNA: But I didn’t - never mind. What do you think we should do with – the
rest of this?
MABEL: [MATCH LIGHTS] Purify it.
[FIRE CATCHES]
[MABEL SCREAMING]
[STRUGGLE SOUNDS; STATIC AND DISTORTION]
ANNA: - Mabel, Mabel, god, Mabel, Mabel, don’t – please, please, you
can’t –
MABEL: Put it out! Say it!
ANNA: You’re – you’re not on fire, you’re not –
[SOUNDS STOP, EXCEPT STATIC]
MABEL: Thank - thank you.
ANNA: Are you okay?
MABEL: I’m fine, I think. Did it work?
ANNA: [PAUSE] I. I think it did. Look at that. It’s like – a mouth, or
something.
MABEL: That’s very - Jonah. Shall we go through?
ANNA: I’ll go if you will. Give me your hand.

[RUNNING NOISES]

[BEEP]

[MORE STATIC, GARBLED SCREAMING]
MABEL: - not that bad, it’s okay, it’s going to be fine ANNA: - get it off get it off get it off me, it’s not, Mabel, get it off, I can’t –
MABEL: Calm down, just [BEEP]

ANNA: So, let’s. Let’s review the situation.
When I look at you in certain angles, it still looks as though you’re - burning.
Not full-on, not when I look at you like this, but. I can see them, the flames of
you, blue and black, from the corner of my vision. Your arm just – healed,
regrew itself, like – like him, like the seasons, as though – I don’t know. I
don’t know, I don’t know. And my hand – look at it, Mabel, tell me what you
see.
MABEL: Hel-Half-Rotted.
ANNA: I know what it means.
MABEL: You know what having a strip of bone for a hand means?
ANNA: It means I really did die when I drank that poison. It means I – I can’t
leave.
MABEL: Anna. What did you think was going to happen? You’re a nurse, for
rowan’s sake, you’re - you didn’t think swallowing a mouthful of killer flora
would do any damage?
ANNA: I don’t know the rules down here! Everything changes, everything
moves in and out, how was I to know MABEL: You know the rules of being alive! You know the intricacies of
death, of dying - it’s literally your entire job!

ANNA: Don’t – You should go. Don’t look at me like that. You can leave, so
you should. You have to.
MABEL: How can you think I would ever want to leave you, even if I could?
ANNA: How can you not? You tore yourself down to bone to find a way out
of here, you stripped away whole parts of yourself - what are you going to
do, just - lock yourself down here with me, for nothing?
MABEL: How dare you say that to me. How dare you call yourself nothing.
ANNA: I’m just trying - I’m trying to be practical.
MABEL: Do you think I am Sally? Do you think I am Lily? Do you think I am
Rosemary or Korina or any other - do you know me at all, Anna? Have you
been listening or haven’t you? I will not be parted from you. Not for anything.
ANNA: So – what? Now we’re both prisoners? I can’t – I won’t be the reason
you’re – are we going to rot down here for the rest of time, until time coils on
itself again? Or do you have some master plan to kill the king and usurp his
throne?
MABEL: Sounds good to me.
ANNA: [FAINTLY] – sounds –
MABEL: I know this is hard for you, and I’m sorry. I know you think you are
only strange in mundane ways, in absences, in lack. But, Anna - you can will
the truth of matter into being. Form, from void, like god. This place - it
stretches on and on and on. We don’t have to fumble in the dark here,
forever. Every labyrinth has a heart. We can do this. We can rig the
chessboard to topple the king. They’re never very strong pieces. [PAUSE] All
civilization is a cage. Which one do you prefer?
ANNA: [LAUGHS, A BIT HYSTERICALLY] Why not, then? It’s not like he’s the
unholy sublimation of all darkness or anything. Let’s kill him. Let’s kill him
together.
MABEL: Anna.
[BEEP]

MABEL: A long time ago you said to me, Stay with me. I will love you like a
fire loves a forest. And I put my fist in my mouth and I told you, You cannot
keep me here. And neither of them were true. Time has made liars and
cheats of us all. Time circles around me like a snake and I let it, in love, in
shrewdness. Maybe it wasn’t me at all you said that to. It doesn’t matter. You
will still pay for it.
I will make a bullet of my mouth. I will make a knife of my heart. I will tear and
tear at you until you have bled for every single day you in your arrogance and
yearning built a pretty bower for a prison. You think you are the king of the
bog, of the underhill, of the black wind howling between the stars? You think
you are the monster at the end of this book? She is Saint Anna, Anna with the
mouth of god, Anna with the fist of bone. I am the girl half burning. I am the
bull in the maze. I am Mabel Martin. I am coming for you. I am coming for
you. We are coming for you.
[OUTRO]
Mabel was created by Becca De La Rosa and Mabel Martin. This episode was
co-written and performed by Becca De La Rosa and Mabel Martin, and
produced by Becca De La Rosa. The music in this episode is by Ars Sonor,
Samara Lubelski, Kai Engel, Rebecca Foon, and (morse), and all of it is
available to download from the Free Music Archive at freemusicarchive.org.
For more information about this episode, including a full tracklist and
transcript, visit us online at mabelpodcast.com.
Season three has been one of our favourite seasons to write and produce,
and this finale was one of our favourite episodes, but it does not mark the
end of Mabel. We will be back in the autumn with season four, and in the
meantime we have competitions to run, and our Patreon will continue with
even more stories, letters, riddles, songs and secret clues into the world of
Mabel Martin and Anna Limon. If you enjoy what we do, please do consider
donating at patreon.com/mabelpodcast. We appreciate each and every one
of you, and we know that season four will be our best season yet.

