ASTERION
Mabel, episode 12: Asterion. In which our protagonists remember their
history.
[INTRO:]
MABEL: Hi, you’ve reached Mabel Martin. I’m not here to take your call right
now, so please leave a message after the beep. Thanks!
[BEEP]
[GASP AWAKE]
[BEEP]
I know it’s late. I hope you’re – I hope I didn’t –
I had a nightmare. I was back in the dark with you, and – I was glad to see
you, I was so glad to see you again, and at the same time I was horrified. I
couldn’t be back there, I couldn’t, I’d gotten out. Is this survivor’s guilt? No,
it’s not, because if it was that’d mean you hadn’t survived – it would mean
you wouldn’t survive, and that’s not true. I won’t let it be true.

You said, come see what I found. Every time I dream about you, you’re
leading me somewhere. You’re the girl with the thread, the girl in the
labyrinth. I don’t know who that makes me. The minotaur?
No, he’s the minotaur.
You took my hand and led me into a room – a cubbyhole, really, a
crawlspace, we had to squeeze inside on our hands and knees. It was lit by –
the light was ghostly, greenish, like the bioluminescence of animals that have
lived their whole lives without ever seeing the sun. Light in imitation of light.
There were dead vines in knots, huge roping clumps of brown and black, and
something wet on the floor that sounded like marshland when I stepped on
it. The walls were wet, too, black and dripping. What is this? I asked you.
It’s his heart, you said. Anna, look.
I looked where you pointed. The dead vines had been cleared away from
one section of the wall, and there were –
They’d been carved into the flesh of the room, these markings, these
pictures, thick white lines like scar tissue. They – there was a wolf with its
mouth open, and inside its jaws, on the bed of its tongue, was a rabbit. I
looked back at you and you were crying. The hound swallows stars in his
tongue, you said. The hound carved the cage from the hill. The hound
chewed the key like meat. The hound harrows all. And then you started
screaming at me, saying where are you, where are you, I looked and looked
but never found you, I –
[BEEP]
It’s morning, seven thirty in the morning, the time I’d usually be going in to
help Sally get up. I keep measuring my day against what I would be doing if
she was still alive. She’d be calling me in now, I’d be making her breakfast,
I’d be making her lunch, she’d be napping in her chair, she’d be watching the
news – it makes sense, I’m in her house. I’m in her house and she’s dead and
I shouldn’t, by any right, be here at all, but – I can’t leave, I can’t leave you –
There’s a – cognitive dissonance, I guess you could call it. Part of me knows
this never was my home, it was my place of employment; and being here
now that my employer’s gone – it’s awkward, an infringement. I spent a lot of
time sitting on my hands so I don’t touch anything that isn’t mine. And part
of me – part of me is a teenager again, left alone for the first time while her

parents go away for the weekend. Did you know I can stay up until four a.m.
if I want to? I can go into town and buy beer, I can drink it in the green
parlour with my shoes up on the sofa, I can drink it with breakfast if I want to!
Who’s going to stop me? Who’s going to care? I still can’t get in touch with
King’s County home help. If people around here know Sally’s dead, they
don’t seem very affected by it. You’re her only relative, and you’re missing, as
far as anyone knows.
[ELECTRIC INTERFERENCE]
Yeah, I know. I’m just saying.
[ELECTRIC INTERFERENCE]
Okay, I’m getting up. I’ll call you back when I’m dressed.
[BEEP]
Let’s talk about Ariadne.
That’s her name, the girl in the labyrinth. I found a book of classical
mythology waiting for me in the kitchen when I got downstairs – what a
coincidence, what a funny little synchronicity. Do you want to know her story?
Don’t say anything, I’m going to tell you anyway.
Ariadne is the princess of Crete. Did they have princesses back then?
Whatever, her father is king, King Minos, and her mother’s the queen, Queen
Pasiphae. Crete, like every good kingdom, has a secret. A monster lives in
the labyrinth beneath the palace, a monster with the head of a bull and the
body of a man and some seriously interesting ancestry, and every seven
years the minotaur demands a sacrifice: seven young men and seven young
ladies to be sent down into his maze and devoured. The third time the tithe
draws near, Theseus, badass Athenian hero, decides to volunteer as one of
the young men to be killed, and see if he can do the heroic thing and murder
the minotaur. But on the boat to Crete, all of his weapons are taken away
from him, and he’s – he’s kind of totally screwed, right?
And then there’s Ariadne. And Ariadne is lovely and Ariadne is kind and she
likes Theseus, so handsome and brave and stupid, so linear, a man with a
task to undertake, and Ariadne knows the secrets that live under her
floorboards, she’s been watching and listening for years, so she gives him a
present. Not a sword or a bow or an AK47, a ball of thread. Theseus uses the

thread to mark his path through the labyrinth, and he finds the minotaur and
kills him, and he makes his way back to safety and says hey, Ariadne, come
with me, I owe you big time. And this is what they call love.
The story doesn’t end there. Because Theseus – he’s kind of a dick, Mabel,
he just – he just gets bored of Ariadne and leaves her in the middle of the
Aegean Sea, on this tiny little island called Dia, and he and his men sail away.
This is the girl who saved his life, with nothing more than – never mind. I hate
Theseus. So Ariadne’s there on Dia, saying, holy crap, that asshole, I’m
legitimately stuck here in the middle of the goddamned Mediterranean –
when out of nowhere, out of the sky and the sand and the ocean, comes
Dionysus. Dionysus with his leopards and his pan-flutes, Dionysus draped in
grape-vines, crazy and drunk and wild and wiser than anything, and he sees
Ariadne and he knows everything, the way gods do: he sees how clever, how
brave, how observant and kind she is, and he falls in love with her, just like
that, and he says, forget him. I will make you into a star, into the brightest
star in the sky, the diamond point of a crown made of fire, and you will be
the single true light that saves sailors from drowning, you will be their
compass, their hope, their memory of home. And Ariadne says –
[CRASH]
[BEEP]
They keep finding ways to sneak into the house. I’ve started carrying Sally’s
secateurs around on my belt-loop, so I can snip them out whenever I find
them. This time it was in the room with the wet-bar – one of the vines
managed to push its way out of the wall and topple the drinks cart. I hope
Sally didn’t leave those crystal highball glasses to anyone in her will.
It – it’s too little, I think. Cutting out the vines when I see them. Chopping
them up and burying them in kitchen salt. It’s not enough to stop him, not
enough to keep you safe. I should be doing more. But short of – of burning
the house down and salting the whole grounds, I don’t know what that is. I
don’t even know what he is. How can I stop something I don’t –
He doesn’t have rules. Or if he does, they aren’t rules like ours. He’s too
many things. Too many selves of him, all of them –
In my dream, I think you were saying – I think you were saying it’s the cage
around her he loves. Not her. But – I was there, Mabel, I saw –

[BEEP]
[BELLS, BOOMING]
[BEEP]
The house is giving me back my newspapers, but not in a useful way. I found
a pile on the stairs when I went to go shower, and they’re all from 1990. April
1990. Thanks, house, but I don’t –
[RUSTLING PAPER]
Oh, god. Oh, Mabel, I didn’t know, I’m so sorry. I wouldn’t have said
anything if I knew, I just. I didn’t.
There’s an interview with her. Two weeks after Lily went missing. [RUSTLING
PAPER] ‘Local woman still distraught after her daughter’s disappearance’.
Yeah, no shit. “Sally Martin, lifelong resident of [CENSORED], is begging the
public for any information they might have about her missing daughter, Lily
Martin, aged 28, who disappeared after a hiking trip on April 3rd. “Lily is a
good girl,” said Mrs. Martin, speaking from her [censored] home. “She grew
up here, she knows the right precautions to take when she goes out walking
in the hills. Every night I go out in the dark with my lantern, hoping she’ll see
it and find her way back. I keep saying, Lily, where are you? Where are you? I
looked and looked but never found you, I need you to come home.”
‘[CENSORED] residents who might have seen Lily Martin are requested to
please contact the sheriff’s office, or the Martins’ dedicated tipline at 1800[CENSORED].’
God, Mabel, I didn’t –
[BEEP]
I opened one of the letters. I did it before I called you, because – maybe I
knew you’d try to talk me out of it. Just one, just the first one, postmarked
1948. Sally would have been, what? Twenty-two? Something like that.
It’s not really a letter. Just two words, written in that red ink or vegetable dye
or whatever it is, like the poem I found inside the doll’s skirt. Two words.
You promised.

It’s dark here, the days are shorter than ever. I’m in the kitchen with the lights
off, looking at the hills. I think if I look long enough I’ll see her, out with her
lantern and her yellow raincoat, hunting for your mother. I think that’s where
she left herself. Even after they found Lily, Sally never really found her. Not
once she was gone.
Sally made a promise, and she broke it. Does that make her a bad person? I
don’t know. It’s not my place, I guess, to make judgments like that. It makes
her a faithless one, though.
The thing about the minotaur, he wasn’t just a monster. He was Pasiphae’s
son, he was the queen’s son. Monsters are never only one thing, like people
are never only one thing. I think that’s why – that’s why they’re monstrous,
because they move between worlds. Neither a man nor a bull but something
twisted, something not quite either. Sally broke her promise, but she loved
you. She loved me. She was kind, she bore her punishment.
It wasn’t a sword forged in the fires of Mount Olympus and baptised in ichor
that killed the minotaur. It was a ball of twine, something you’d find in any
kitchen drawer or garden shed, something so commonplace you’d never
even consider it a weapon. I’m not Ariadne, I’m not Theseus, I’m not the
minotaur. If I’m anyone in this story –
If I’m anyone, I’m the ball of twine. Because – Mabel, I keep my promises. I’m
not Sally. I’m not a hero, but I’m not nobody, either. I’m not strong or brave
or particularly smart, but I’m little and sturdy and I’m here, here in your
pocket, here in the dark with you. Just keep walking. Just don’t give up. I
promise I won’t leave you there. I promise.
[OUTRO:]
Mabel is written and produced by Becca De La Rosa. The voice of Mabel
Martin is [censored]. The voice of Anna Limon is Becca De La Rosa. The
music in this episode was by Ars Sonor, Free Piece of Tape, Mary Lattimore,
Yrrow, Blue Dressed Man, Mathieu Lamontagne and Emmanuel Toledo,
смерть в летнюю полночь, and Morse, and all of it is available to download
on the Free Music Archive at freemusicarchive.org. For more information
about Mabel, including a full tracklist and transcript for each episode, visit us
online at mabelpodcast.com, or on Twitter, @podcastmabel.

