CROSSED WIRES

Mabel, Episode 9: Crossed Wires. In which [garbled]
[INTRO:]
MABEL: Hi, you’ve reached Mabel Martin. I’m not here to take your call right
now, so please leave a message after the beep and I’ll get back to you soon
as I can. Thanks!
[BEEP]
CLARA: Nola, answer your phone. Answer your phone. Nola! Ugh, I hate you.
[BEEP]
CLARA: Okay, number one, you promised you would come over tonight. Do
you remember making that promise? Do you remember saying even if
Michael Carter turns up on my doorstep with a basket full of vodka, brownie
mix, Adderal and condoms? Because I remember that, Nola. I remember
those exact words coming out of your mouth.
Yeah, and, number two, I’m like. Actively losing it over here, or something.
You know that big old house up at the top of the hill, the Martin place? I
keep seeing these, like, creepy lights coming from the top windows. Which
is, whatever, lights, right? Only I know the old lady who lives there is in the

hospital right now, Mom ran into some friend of hers who said so. She’s been
in the hospital for a week, it’s not looking good for her, apparently. So, I
mean, who the [censored] is turning the lights on and off in the old lady’s
attic? Like, does your brain not go straight to ghosts? So I spent like three
hours thinking about that, and basically creeped the fuck out of myself, which
is why, Nola, okay, if you remember, I wanted you to come over in the first
place, you bitch, because I get creeped out when I’m at my mom’s house on
my own. So maybe, if it’s not too much trouble, could you just answer your
stupid phone.
[BEEP]
MONA: Hey, will you call me when you get this?
[BEEP]
MONA: Anna, Mom’s starting to worry. I need you to call her, please.
[BEEP]
MONA: Am I pressing the wrong button or something? Patrick? Patrick,
would you come look at this thing for –
[BEEP]
MONA: Anna, it’s been four days. Mom’s worrying, I’m starting to worry. I’m
hoping you just forgot to pay your cell phone bill again, but – just – call me,
please?
[BEEP]
MONA: Anna?
[BEEP]
LAUREN: Mabel! This is my new number, it’s Lauren!
JUSTINE: Hey, Mabel!
LAUREN: Justine’s here too, she says hi. We’re back in town for Takao’s
wedding, and – no one’s heard from you! Sukie says you didn’t RSVP, you

haven’t been on the group chat, you haven’t been on Facebook or Twitter or
anything, it’s – we want to make sure you’re okay, we miss you!
JUSTINE: Tell her Korina’s coming to the wedding.
LAUREN: I’m not going to – you are such a brat. We’ll be in town all week, so
give us a call, okay? We’d love to go for a coffee and catch up, even if – call
us, yeah?
JUSTINE: Tell her Korina said –
LAUREN: Oh my god, you are so –
[BEEP]
CLARA: Pick up your phone, Nola! Oh my god, you actual caveperson, I am
going to –
Look, I’m serious right now. I’m so [censored] pissed at you. This isn’t funny
anymore, I am genuinely scared. I went to let Muffins out, and there’s this –
it’s like music, but like music that’s completely – it’s – okay, I’m going to go
outside again and I’m going to put you on speaker, so at least there’ll be,
like, a record of it.
[Footsteps]
Shit, it – it stopped. Okay, well, that’s –
[Music]
CLARA: [Screams]
[BEEP]
ANNA: Anna Limon –
AUTOMATED WOMAN’S VOICE: - is not available. At the tone, please
record your message.
[Repeated, increasingly distorted.]
[BEEP]

YULIA: Hello, I’m calling for Mabel Martin – this is Doctor Yulia Antonova, I
work in the ICU at [censored]. According to our records, you’re the next of
kin for a Sally Martin? We’d like to have a chat with you, if possible, so if you
could drop in to [censored] at some point, or call the unit on extension
[censored], that would be great. Thank you.
[BEEP]
CLARA: Nola, it’s me again. Em. I can’t believe you’re not answering your
phone still. Me and Muffins are in my mom’s room. I pushed the wardrobe up
against the door, and the dressing table up against the wardrobe, and I’m
hiding under the bed. I don’t even care that I sound like an actual lunatic.
There is something fucking weird going on at that house, Nola. I don’t just
mean all the stuff you hear as a kid, all the haunted house, scary-old-recluselady crap, I mean – I was out there in the garden, you know? I was looking up
at the house when that music started playing, and I saw – I think I saw – it was
– the attic lights were on again, and I – there was a girl up in the attic
window. Not the old lady’s nurse, I know what she looks like, this was
someone different. She put one hand up against the window, I thought – I
thought maybe she was asking me for help, right? But she started laughing,
her teeth were, I think they were pointed, she – she, like, drew one finger
across her throat.
I know what you’re going to say. There’s no way I could have seen all that
from my garden, no way I could have seen her teeth, that house is like half a
mile away. But I did, and – she saw me too, I am positive she did.
When I –
When I was little I used to have these weird recurring nightmares about a
woman trapped in a well. She’d say please, Claire, you can get me out, you
just have to lean over, just a little bit more, just put your hand down into the
water, just climb down into the dark, and –
Oh my god, there’s a car pulling up to the house. I am not kidding, I am
literally about to be murdered, I – I’m going to go take a picture of the
license plate out the window and send it to you. It’s your job to get this shit
to the police, okay? I’m going to hold you to that, I swear, I will haunt you for
the next seven million years, God, you asshole.
I’m at the curtains, I’m –

Is –

Oh my god, you stupid – you bitch, I swear to –
Nola! I am going to kill you! I am actually going to eat your face! Don’t give
me that look –
[BEEP]
OFFICER: Miss Limon, this is Officer Jameson from the King’s County Police
Department. We’ve received a report from Mona Jenkins that you haven’t
been responding to her messages. If you could give me a call at 555-3024
we can get this cleared up for you ladies. You have a nice day, now.
[BEEP]
[Singing, distortion, two girls laughing]

[OUTRO:]
Mabel is written and produced by Becca De La Rosa. The voice of Clara was
Nicola Kavanagh. The voice of Mona was Cara De La Rosa. The voice of
Lauren was Jane Barron. The voice of Justine was Jen Barron. The voice of
Dr. Yulia Antonovna was Catya Winter. The voice of Officer Jameson was
Lane Lloyd, creator of Sable, one of our favourite sister audio dramas. As
always, the voice of Mabel Martin is [censored], and the voice of Anna Limon
is Becca De La Rosa. The music in this episode was by Ars Sonor, Bladiator,
and Morse, and all of it is available to download on the free music archive at
freemusicarchive.org. For more information about Mabel, including links to
our guest actors’ websites, a full tracklist, and transcripts for each episode,
visit us online at mabelpodcast.com, or on Twitter, @podcastmabel. Thank
you so much to our wonderful listeners for bearing with us while we tried to
make season two as alarming and eerie as possible. We love you like the
dark earth loves blood.

