CHIMERA

Mabel, episode 25: Chimera. In which the past pays our heroines a visit.
[INTRO:]
MABEL: You think you are the king of the bog, of the underhill, of the black
wind howling between the stars? You think you are the monster at the end of
this book? She is Saint Anna, Anna with the mouth of god, Anna with the fist
of bone. I am the girl half burning. I am the bull in the maze. I am Mabel
Martin. I am coming for you. I am coming for you. We are coming for you.
[BEEP]
NEWSCASTER 1: It has been thirteen days since the dramatic disappearance
of Anna Limon, a home health worker from [CENSORED] –
[STATIC]
NEWSCASTER 2: – employer Sally Martin’s large coastal home, leaving
behind a number of strange items, to the consternation of her friends and
family. Anna Limon –
[STATIC]
PODCASTER 1: So if you’ve been paying even the tiniest bit of attention to
the outside world over the past two weeks, you – like us – won’t have been

able to escape all the talk about Anna Limon and her bizarre disappearance
from god-knows-where-county [CENSORED].
PODCASTER 2: Yeah, and I’m sure you’ve heard all the gory details, but let’s
lay it out for those of our listeners who’ve been living under a rock –
[STATIC]
NEWSCASTER 1: – local police authorities have yet to make an official
statement but KCSF news spoke to an anonymous source close to the
missing girl who had this to say: “Anna is a thoughtful and responsible girl.
She would never worry her family and friends by disappearing without a
cause. All of us continue to pray for her safe return.” For the fourth day in a
row, K-9 units were seen investigating the hills behind the Martin estate –
[STATIC]
NEWSCASTER 2: – a pillar of the community, and someone whose family ties
reach back over several generations. Mrs. Martin died two months ago after
an incident of exposure, which authorities are now treating as suspicious –
[STATIC]
PODCASTER 2: – uh, bottles of needles and blood – none of which has been
actually, you know, tested yet, they found vines of poisonous plants growing
into the rooms of the – this big old estate, you know, in the middle of
nowhere, they found locks of someone’s hair wrapped up in like twigs or
something, ripped out at the root, so how hard it is to do a [CENSORED]
DNA test, there were animals living in the walls of the house – care to chime
in, dude?
PODCASTER 1: I don’t buy it. There’s just too much, all this weird
[CENSORED] – it’s a hoax, it’s got to be. What’s the alternative?
PODCASTER 2: Well, and that’s a good question. We’ve had people
suggesting everything from alien abduction to ghosts to a secret cult up in
the [CENSORED] hills, to the illuminati –
PODCASTER 1: That’s the thing, though. Why would the illuminati want
anything to do with a home nurse who, like, feeds old people soup? It just
doesn’t –

[STATIC]
NEWSCASTER 1: – with KCSF News, I’m [NAME]; Jason Derrick is up next
with the –
[STATIC]
NEWSCASTER 2: - no leads so far. If any of the public has any information
about the sudden disappearance of home health care worker Anna Limon,
please call 012[CENSORED] –
[STATIC]
PODCASTER 1: - opening it up to our listeners. What do you think happened
in the Martin house? Are we talking demons? Werewolves? Insurance fraud?
PODCASTER 2: Or just a case of a crazy girl who wandered off and broke her
neck in the hills? Whatever your theory, we want to hear it; you know where
to find us, we’re Atticus and Riley with –
PODCASTER 1 & 2: [MUSIC STOPS] The Daily Bite.
[BEEP]
ANNA: No one ever told me how restful it is to be dead.
There is clematis down here, moon-pale, a strange strain that grows in the
dark, luminous and veined. There is fragrant lavender and chamomile and
stinging nettle. Did you know that Roman soldiers stationed in the
unprecedented cold of ancient Britain rubbed themselves in stinging nettles,
to keep warm? I said to the walls and hollows of the hill: I will keep her warm.
I will keep her. I will keep her.
I don’t know what I am. I don’t know what it means, to have a fist made of
bone, to be able to shear matter from matter down here in the heart of the
world. Look, now, listen to me click and clatter. [SOUND EFFECTS] The other
night I said to you: we are girls who are not quite girls. You said: we are
women distilled to their essence. I took you apart petal by petal, like a
flower.
I don’t think I have quite learned how to process you face-to-face. How to
look at you, so electric, so vivid, for more than a few minutes at a time. I am

used to the shadow of you, the imminence of you; you in the fullness of your
presence burn my eyes. I eked a cavern for us – a bower for us – from the
substance of the hillside, hung it with clematis, with ivy, with bindweed, with
bee-orchid. Here, in the black mud of his heart, I hid us away like secret
things. Like jewels. He will never find us, not here. You are a garnet waiting in
a wall of rot. A balas ruby wrapped in clinging moss. He will never –
[BEEP]
[LAUGHTER, WHISPERS]
[BEEP]
MABEL: – creeping one at a time. You are unfathomable to me. The meat of
you, the pearly cells and ruby blood that winds you up and sets you on your
way. You asked me if you were autonomous or automaton – what kind of god
could imagine something so perfect as you? There is no world in which you
did not create yourself. And in every way that is true – I know nothing of your
mother, your father, your sister, your cousins, your homeland, your habits. I
only know what carefully curated self you have shown me, gift-wrapped. A
spread of all your bright, best qualities. Is that truth? Is that prayer? Do I have
to take the rest of you on faith, Saint Anna? I have a natural inclination
towards doubt, towards...questioning. Always a fist to raise against
something. Not you. I don’t think. Unless this bower is another cage. Then.
Well, then.
You have got the devil in you, Sally used to say. Do you know, I think she
hated herself, hated her body, hated the prison it kept the ghoul of her
inside. She could not separate her meat from its organs. It’s a hard enough
thing for either of us, Anna, the cataloguing over every treed vein, every
water sigh, every mouth growing from a flower, but we are not stupid the
way Sally was. A willful kind of lack of self-awareness – it’s what I cannot
stand. She looked at her body growing and sliding and festering and
consuming and bleeding and devouring and she saw a horror that had to be
contained. But there is beauty in all manner of death. In denial of the societal
for the freedom of self. And we are not cowards, you especially. An etin, a
chimera, a creature with many meanings but all of them liminal, you are....la
souer des anges. Even now. Even still. Even inside of you, like an iris, like an
orchid.
[BEEP]

UNKNOWN VOICE: Is it working?
UNKNOWN VOICE: The light’s on.
UNKNOWN VOICE: Testing, testing.
UNKNOWN VOICE: Okay. We’re go.
[BEEP]
ANNA: – why do you have to be so melodramatic about everything? Why is it
always black or white? This is a grey area, Mabel, this is, God, the epitome of
grey areas, and I don't know why you can't –
MABEL: - right, that's me, isn't it, overreacting Mabel, catastrophic Mabel,
why don't you go smoke a cigarette or brush your hair or something normal,
Anna, something mundane, isn't that what you really want –
ANNA: This is exactly my point! Why can't you just listen to what I'm saying?
Why does it have to be so monumental, why do you have to - like - distill us
down to our most terrible aspects? I just want to –
MABEL: What? What? What? What what what what do you want? What do
you really want, Anna, what do you have to shelter me from, what do you
think I can't take?
ANNA: I just want to talk to you! I just want to have a conversation, not - usas-archetypes, not you burning and me skeletal and both of us trapped here
under the ground, I just want to. I just want to sit down and talk, I just want to
- I want to hear you, I don't - I don't even know why I'm yelling, I –
MABEL: [LAUGHS] I'll tell you, if you like. Why. If you tell me how you are in
any way a person. By your own definition - what did you say? You had
accessories to personhood. I am treating you as you are, Anna, not as you
pretend to be. Perhaps you are unused to it.
ANNA: Oh, god, "perhaps" I am "unused" to it. Perhaps this is a little bit out
of my goddamned depth, perhaps I'm floundering. God forbid you cut me a
tiny bit of slack –
MABEL: Why should I cut you any slack when you hold the leash of me tight
as a drawn arrow? Why should I give you any more ground than what you

have conquered? I love you, and that means you rule me, Anna, and I will
make you pay for it, even just in this. Even just in mercilessness.
ANNA: You think you understand mercilessness, because you've cut yourself
down to your arteries for my sake? You think that's what it means, to see me
clearly? Maybe I should show you how it is to be merciless, Mabel. What
would you do if I –
MABEL: If you what? Do it, Anna. I will have it no other way. I will have
nothing but your purest, most instinctual self. I demand it. Show me.
ANNA’S DOPPLEGANGER: Hello, girls.
ANNA: What – is that – Mabel, is that - did you –
ANNA’S DOPPLEGANGER: Always giving her credit. I'm me myself, thank
you very much. [LAUGHS] No one ever told me how restful it is to be dead.
[BEEP]
[DISTANT TINKLING MUSIC]
ANNA: [WHISPERING] What is that?
[MUSIC FADES IN AND OUT]
[BEEP]
VERATRINE: [LAUGHING]
ANNA: What is this, how are you –
MABEL: How did you get here? How are you alive –
ANNA: Mabel, what is going on –
VERATRINE: [LAUGHS, TURNS INTO SCREECHING STATIC]
[BEEP]
[VINES GROWING SOUNDS, FLOWERS BURSTING INTO BLOOM SOUNDS,
WET FLESH SOUNDS]

[VERATRINE GASPING, GROANING.]
[BRANCHES SNAPPING]
[BEEP]
VERATRINE: I am a creature of my own creation, and that makes me god. I
dug myself out of the permafrost and bloom once more, despite your leaf rot
and your stem necrosis and your blossom blight. I sunk and crested. I felt
myself pared down to one seed and I curled up tightly, so tightly, let it hold
me until it was too painful to remain still. I birthed myself anew, despite your
hand against me. Are you curious how I did it? Plucked and stitched myself
into being? What tools does any god use? Will. Will and self-determination. I
willed myself out of the mud. I willed myself out of your hands. I willed my
throat back together after you tore me apart.
ANNA: What –
MABEL: It’s not like –
VERATRINE: Be quiet. I am not finished. The work is not finished. Listen. Can
you hear the roots of me forcing their way back into the earth? If you listen carefully - closely - the thin whipping cords of my sinew, jasmine, willow,
birch, will say shh, shh, shh. Growing and growing after I’m dead. Isn’t that
what they say about the dead? Their hair grows, their nails grow?
MABEL: [SCOFFS] That’s a myth –
VERATRINE: Be quiet. Be quiet. You are a myth, Mabel Martin. With your
trick box eyes and your serpent tongue. You are less real than I am. Who had
a hand in your creation? Did you haul yourself out of form, from void? No.
You didn’t. I am a greater being than you, so close your mouth.
ANNA: [FRIGHTENED] What kind of being is that?
VERATRINE: I told you. A god of black mud and creation. Stretched yearning
over a frame of earth. [CREAKING NOISE] All life is rooted in the festering of
the earth. But what can you know about that? All you know is death, Mabel
Martin. You are a tattered bit of ghost. Incomplete. [TO ANNA] Your love,
lesser-self, knows quite a bit about death.

ANNA: What is she talking about?
MABEL: I – I – I –
VERATRINE: I’ve done a good job, then. This is the only time I’ve ever seen
you shut up.
MABEL: Anna, she was trying to hurt me, I was just – I needed to get to you,
so –
VERATRINE: She killed me.
MABEL: Shut up!
VERATRINE: [LAUGHING]
MABEL: I would have told you - I was going to tell you but I just didn’t know
how –
VERATRINE: [GLEEFUL] She strangled me, Anna. She put her skinny hands
around my throat and squeezed and squeezed and squeezed until the birch
of me cracked under her palms –
MABEL: [DESPAIRING] Shut up shut up VERATRINE: Didn’t I say you would regret it, Mabel?
MABEL: [SCREAMS]
[SOUNDS OF A STRUGGLE]
ANNA: Mabel, stop. Both of you. For one second. Shut up. [DISTORTED
ROARING, CRASHING]
[BEEP]
[ROARING]
[BRANCHES OVERTAKE ROARING]
[ANNA LIMON’S VOICEMAIL MESSAGE PLAYS SOFTLY]

[INTERRUPTED BY SNAPPING SOUND]
[BEEP]
MABEL: Please just let me explain, Anna –
VERATRINE: You should have known better than to love her –
ANNA: I told you both to shut up, Jesus Christ.
MABEL: You know what, yes, I did! I killed her, this petulant, scheming
version of you, I snapped her in two and I regret nothing, I will never
apologize! I am not sorry and I wish you were dead still, you dull, simpering
hag! You trapped me and cut me and tied me up and you – you – you tried
to take me from myself VERATRINE: You are –
MABEL: I’d do it again! You’re lucky I haven’t ripped out your spine ANNA: Mabel.
[MABEL SEETHING]
ANNA: [SOFTLY] Look at me. Look at me, please.
MABEL: I am, I –
ANNA: There's no one else.
MABEL: What –
ANNA: No one but us. Don't look away. There's only you, and me. Do you
understand?
VERATRINE: Hello, we were talking about me.
ANNA: Not at the moment, we aren’t.
MABEL: Please – tell me you still trust me. Please tell me you don’t think that
I’m – I –

VERATRINE: A snake with two heads? A body without organs? A rot-hearted
girl with death festering inside her –
ANNA: Oh, be quiet. That's enough. Do you think I didn’t know about you?
Do you think I didn’t feel it when they made you? I know what Mabel did. I
know she took your throat in her hands and snapped you into kindling. I felt
it, even down here. Mabel, I was glad. I laughed and laughed, it was – it was
beautiful, I’d never felt – [ASIDE] you. Other-me. Doppleganger, twig-thing.
What did you expect from Mabel, the way you came at her? Did you expect
her to lie down and let you chew her up? She’d never be so weak. And
anyway; for all your talking, all your claims of self-creation, can’t you even see
what she gave you?
VERATRINE: I –
ANNA: She gave you the opportunity to forge yourself. She gave you a gift.
Who would you be, if she hadn't – what did you say she did, strangled you?
You'd just be sticks and stones. There wouldn't even be anyone here to listen
to your speech about how you built yourself like a god. If you want us to
listen to your story – you should thank her, first.
VERATRINE: I wouldn’t say that specifically.
ANNA [TO MABEL]: Do you still need me to tell you that I trust you?
MABEL: No, I – I don’t doubt you. I’m. Thank you.
ANNA: You don’t need to thank me for that.
VERATRINE: Veratrine.
MABEL: What?
ANNA [SIMULTANEOUSLY]: Excuse me?
VERATRINE: That’s - it’s the name I chose for myself. I...liked the way it
sounded in my mouth.
MABEL: The poison. A Christmas rose.
VERATRINE: Yes.

MABEL: I like it.
VERATRINE: I don’t need your approval.
ANNA: You need something from us, or you wouldn't be here. Or did you
just come to make Mabel feel bad? If so, I guarantee you're going to have
some trouble.
VERATRINE: Fear to audacity to alpha bitch protectiveness. You’re quite the
emotional spectrum, aren’t you, Anna?
MABEL: I’ll break your neck again –
VERATRINE: There’s no need for that, hummingbird. You’re fun to rattle but I
have no interest in you. Either of you. Not specifically.
ANNA: You just want to monologue at us for the fun of it, then.
VERATRINE: This is fun, isn’t it? Until the inevitable collapse of it all.
MABEL: Only until you try to kill us, I guess.
VERATRINE: You conversating amoeba. Not everything is about you, Mabel
Martin.
MABEL: Sorry, I must have gotten confused by your rambling about the
inevitable collapse of –
VERATRINE: Of course I don’t mean you. The work. The Great Work. The
burning of all that would imprison us. The toppling of every structure, a
rigged chess match in which both kings always fall. The rising of self against
the tyranny of autocracy, against the tyranny of the many, against any and
every tyranny. Against any standard imposed by any civilization.
MABEL: Yes. Yes.
ANNA: What – is that? In practical terms? You two – you speak similar
languages, I understand that. But translate, if you please, the..."Great Work",
into. You know. An actual plan. Why are you here, really? What are you going
to do?

VERATRINE: You did not do me a good turn, Mabel Martin. You took what
was offered to you and you chewed it up and you spat it back out in my face.
The only thing you know is violence. That is your dialect, your particular
brand of mother tongue. But I do not really begrudge you this, even though I
should. You have shown me how to die, but there are worse things than
death. Like loss of freedom. Like loss of self. You are right in this; I am not
entirely a true person, though I am more myself now than I ever have been.
You killed me. You did not create me. You are not a despot; you did not bind
me with ribbon and rowan and bid me to speak, to break, to light up real as a
flesh-coated frame of calcium and sing and dance and run, run, run. You did
not conjure me out of the ether without my consent, and place your sign over
my mouth, that I might be your property. You did not bind me into that
prison of being.
[DISTANT MUSIC]
Anna Limon. The girl with the hand bare of flesh. The girl whose face I wear,
for however short a time. We are going to kill him. We are going to make
them pay. We’re going to make them feel what they’ve done to us.
[LAUGHS] We’ll kill them all.
MABEL: She wants to dethrone the king. She wants him dead.
[MUSIC IN THE DISTANCE BECOMES LOUDER]
ANNA: What is that, god, what now –
MABEL: It’s the –
VERATRINE: It’s his ball.
MABEL: They’re throwing a goddamn party.
[OUTRO:]
Mabel is written by Becca De La Rosa and Mabel Martin. The voice of Anna
Limon is Becca De La Rosa, and the voice of Mabel Martin is Mabel Martin.
The voices of Newscasters 1 and 2 were Caitlin Gomez and Tayelor Bourque.
The voices of podcasters Atticus and Riley were Atticus and Riley Duran. The
music in this episode was by Kai Engel, Moon Veil, Kosta T, Mathieu
Lamontagne and Emmanuel Toledo, Johnny Ripper, The Pangolins, DR, and

(morse), and all of it is available to download from the Free Music Archive at
freemusicarchive.org. For more information about this episode, including a
full tracklist and transcript, visit us online at mabelpodcast.com.
We rely on your help to keep Mabel going. If you enjoy what we do, please
check out the range of rewards on our Patreon at
patreon.com/mabelpodcast. Huge thank you to Raymond Wallace III, Andy
Foery, Zoe Madonna, Vivian Duong, and Sabine Reimer for your support.

