LA PEREGRINACIÓN

Mabel, episode 19: La Peregrinación. In which the present eats the past.
[INTRO]
ANNA: – Anna Limon –
AUTOMATED FEMALE VOICE: – is not available. At the tone, please record
your message.
[BEEP]

[ROTARY PHONE NOISES]
Fine, let’s try [BEEP]
-make a deal with you. A bargain. I’ll trade something. What do you want?
What do I have left that’s valuable?
[CREAKING, DISTORTION]
I’ll come back. I’ll always come back. I promise.

[CREAKING]
I promise.
[BEEP]
[WIND]
What? No. No, I don’t need - no, I’m fine. It’s fine. It’s [SCREAMING, EVENTUALLY TURNS TO LAUGHING]
Run, run, run. [LAUGHS]
[BEEP]
[BIRDS, WIND]
We are to be productive today, Anna. Today we will not mope. Today we will
scourge and devour every piece of information available to us. (sighs) I have
come to visit Sally’s grave. I have come to see if she rests easy in death, if she
is tossing and turning. If she’s silent. It’s a good day for it. The sun is out. Of
all things I missed, I think the sun is the most significant. Light and warmth. Is
it just a poor substitute for you, I wonder?
I don’t have your real world skills, Anna. I had to walk here. I never learned to
drive, did you know that? The thought’s still a little distasteful to me. All that
screeching metal. I’d rather know my feet stretch into the roots of the earth.
[INDECIPHERABLE TALKING]
What? No. No, I’m - I’m just [BEEP]
Protective camouflage. That’s what you are, Anna. You can hear me, can’t
you, through the silver and green of it - but even if you couldn’t, you are
helping me. More than you know. I am unused to the laws which govern this
land of earth cleaved from sky, this world of separates. There is no grace in
liminality. There is no understanding of the will and autonomy of the
individual. No one takes you at your word. Or at least the men don’t. Back h-

back there they would have been skewered if they annoyed me too much.
What good are men to us unless they can sing, unless they can weave stories
like the very best silkmoth? Isn’t that all people here do, anyway? Breed and
die? [SIGHS] If only they were mouthless, too.
Someone tried to follow me here. I didn’t realize it until I’d walked awhile. He
called me dear and tried to speak to me about my hair, about the weather. I
don’t know why. He left me alone, though, after he stopped staring. My
method of distancing myself from the rest of them has been….successful, but
very, ah. [LAUGHS] Well, it’s been effective.
But I realize even from this you will protect me, from small, boring
annoyances. The dirt people watch me ramble into this phone and they think
I am like them, as long as they don’t listen too closely. And so you spare me
from their endlessly mundane attempts at communication. Isn’t that nice,
Anna? I think it’s very sweet of you to do. I know you want me to be
comfortable and pleased.
[CHURCH BELLS]
The [CENSORED] cemetery is pretty. You were right. The gravestones are
like the crooked teeth of a giant, moss covered and smoothed over with
time. The ever infiltrating snake.
The house almost wouldn’t let me leave. It opened - never mind. You don’t
care. I fear you’ve only ever felt tenderness towards the idea of me. The
whole of myself would make you run screaming. Anyway.
We are making the same voyage, backwards. [LAUGHS] I remember you told
me that you would come here with your girlfriend, or ex-girlfriend.
Whomever. All those human pretenses, playing at bigger, more terrible
things. Ooh, look at how frightening we are, clad in black, scaring the
children. But then, I don’t actually know. I don’t know what your attachments
are, what ties you might have to people still living. Or dead. I wish you were
here now. I have the strongest urge to write over all of your memories, if
they’re still there. If you haven’t already thrown them in the trash. Isn’t that so
terrible of me? What do you think of the wretched creature you’ve saved,
Saint Anna?
[WALKING]

Sally’s grave sticks out like balloon animals at a funeral. All new and
unmarked, clean in a sea of history. A plastic bag against the tide of portent.
There are flowers on the grave here, pink, effusive. Almond, I think. That
means something, right? Somebody cared. I guess that’s nice. I can’t tell. I’m
nothing like a person. I wouldn’t have left Sally flowers. I like them too much,
their infinite coloration, their variation of usefulness. I didn’t like Sally much. I
think that might be cruel to say, now that she’s dead, but it’s an honest
assessment of myself. My heart is curved cruel like a claw.
Here lies Sally Martin, the wife. That’s what it should say, her grave, instead
of the clean slate she gets in death. That’s all she ever wanted to be, right?
Of all of these things, Anna, this I cannot forgive: that Sally was complicit in
her reduction of herself. The way her mother was. The way my mother was.
An endless line of women making the wrong choices, always for men. In this
way even my own birth is a betrayal. (sighs) But I am not a faithless spectator.
And neither are you. I remember what you told me. That you would never
leave me alone, that you would come after me through death and beyond.
And you did. There is something to that at least. That you keep your
promises. I think if nothing else they will grant you clemency for that. I Wait there’s - what’s - there’s something on the back of her - Sally’s grave, it’s
- it’s carved [CHURCH BELLS]
Oh, it’s [CHURCH BELLS GROWING LOUDER, MORE DISTORTED]
Oh, Anna, your heart, oh you poor- it’s been eaten - it’s so beautiful, it’s[BEEP]
– just that - of course. No, I - I am no one she knows. Knew. We were
strangers.
[INDECIPHERABLE SPEECH]
Of course, I - actually, may I use your phone?
[BEEP]

I have a confession to make, Anna Limon. I have a suspicion. I do not think
the phone inside my house has its wires snaked into the true earth, into the
here and now. I do not think it will show me the roots of what i want to know
about you and so I came here, to hallowed ground where my kin lay in death,
to see if I could pick the truth of you out of the air, out of electricity. It’s a
long way for a phone call. You might laugh. But ritual is important. I think we
both understand that.
I snuck you inside this place, Anna. The woman who manages the cemetery,
she’s sweet. I think she might have let me use her phone even if she saw that
I carried you with me obsessively, like a dragon and her hoard. But I think I’ll
still put you in my pocket. I cannot, after all, risk losing any connection to
you. Who knows what fickle habits enchanted objects might possess? So I am
hiding you for a little while. Do forgive me.
[BEEP]
- just a...flower bracelet, ha, something my siblings made to for me to remind
me of them. You don’t mind giving me some privacy, right?
[INDECIPHERABLE VOICES] You’re so kind.
[DOOR CLOSING]
A lie thrice told. A lie thrice told. A lie thrice told. [PHONE BUTTONS BEING
PRESSED] Hi, this is Nadezhda Stark, home insurer from the Bluebell Wood
Foundation, I’m calling for Anna Limon? I have important information
regarding her home protection policy and I’d like to know if she Oh. Are you - that’s.
Oh, is that - is that so? Row - ah tha…….ank you. You’ve...been helpful.
[LAUGHS] Oh, Anna. I think you are not a girl. I think you are a spider.
[BEEP]
[WIND, BIRDS, ALL DISTORTED]
Something’s...there’s something wrong. The edges of the trees have all gone
flat. I went back to Sally’s grave and looked and it’s - there’s something off
about it. Too bright, too obvious.

The people at your old job, they said - they said you’d had a bit of an
absence, that you were out for awhile for personal problems, a family
emergency, they said, but that you- you were back now, and you were doing
your job splendidly and seemed to have no issues with going right back to
work and they could get in touch with you if I wanted, coordinate a meeting
to make sure that - I got all the information I It isn’t you. It isn’t. It isn’t. I know you. I do. I know that much. They must have
- it just can’t be you. You went into the dark for me. You can’t be here - you
can’t be within my reach and not [BEEP]
I have been thinking about my deal with the house. The mouth of it, curled
around me, unwilling to spit me out or swallow me up. Just leave me in
stasis. But I can’t bear that. I am an ever chaotic thing. I coaxed my way out,
just to peel the curtain back on you. I got more than I bargained for, that’s for
sure. [DISTORTION] But I had to.
After all, what do I have left in me, left of me, that’s worth anything? The
same thing you have, Anna. What separates us from the rest, if I’m right
about you. You told me you would help me. You told me you wouldn’t leave
me alone. In every way, that is now true.
My word, Anna. I have my word. I gave my word to the house that I would
always come back. I am giving my word to you now. This creeping thing in
the world, taking orders under your name - I won’t let it stand. I know what it
is, to be subsumed by a plethora of - of selves. I know what it is to be
trapped. Being an object of desire, of love - it still renders you an object.
[DISTORTION] I am angry at you, for being gone, the way a child might be,
but I would never let you be caged.
I will keep you from the dissolution of self. Time, like any fabric, can be
unpicked, and I am a connoisseur of taking things apart. [DISTORTION] If I If I can still trust myself. If I can still trust the world around me. The house has
fed and nourished me. Eat me, drink me. It slithers itself into dark places and
accompanies me into hell, into that which is outside of myself. Outside of
itself. Is it looking out through my eyes, trying to find new ways to see the
world? To infiltrate it? I think - I think the house won’t ever let me be alone;
won’t ever let me be too far from its clutches. Won’t ever share me. The
house would fold itself up and let me carry it in my pocket if I asked that of it.

All I ever need do is call. But it might not let me do the opposite. It might not
give me the chance to keep my word - I - I don’t - Anna
[ROARING]
Anna - I - I don’t think I’ve left the house, after all, Anna, I think I’m still inside
it -

[OUTRO:]
This is Becca De La Rosa, one of the co-creators of Mabel, and before I read
the end credits I have a special message for you: because you all constantly
amaze us with your interest, your talent, your analytical skills, and your
dedication to the show, we have hidden somewhere within season three a
secret message. The message will not be complete until the season is
finished. The first person to send us the finished message in full through the
messaging system on our website will receive a substantial prize, and one we
both frankly want to keep for our own. More details will be made available
soon, but for now, all you need to do is keep consuming the show.
Mabel was created by Becca De La Rosa and Mabel Martin. This episode was
written and performed by Mabel Martin, and produced by Becca De La Rosa.
The music in this episode was by Ars Sonor, Blue Dot Sessions, Real Vocal
String Quartet, and (morse), and all of it is available to download from the
Free Music Archive at freemusicarchive.org. For more information about this
episode, including a full tracklist and transcript, visit us online at
mabelpodcast.com.
We rely on your help to keep Mabel going. If you enjoy what we do, please
check out the range of rewards on our Patreon at
patreon.com/mabelpodcast. Huge thank you to Ellesse, Amanda Fray,
Charles Poretto, Lin Fajardo, and Lucille Haen for your support.

