INFINITY MIRROR: YOU AND ME AND THE DEVIL MAKES THREE
Mabel: Infinity Mirror, Part Three – You and Me and the Devil Makes Three. In
which an important message is relayed.
[INTRO]

BECCA: Dear listeners, this is Becca De La Rosa, co-creator of the Mabel
podcast.
MABEL: And this is the rhizome occasionally known as Mabel Martin.
BECCA: In celebration of our upcoming fifth season, we’re going to be
running a little competition.
MABEL: A big competition.
BECCA: Our biggest competition, actually.
MABEL: We’re going to be offering one of our loyal listeners a chance to stay
overnight in the house that inspired the podcast: an empty mansion built
over the cliffs of the Irish Sea.
BECCA: We’ll pay to fly you over here from anywhere in the world. First class.
MABEL: No entries are necessary. Just keep listening - [GLITCHES]
[BEEP]

[LAUGHTER]
[STATIC]

TRESSA: [SHOUTS] Is someone here? Hello? Hello! Hello hello hello [STATIC FUMBLING]
No one. No one.
[SIGHS]
It’s seven fifty-six in the evening. I don’t know what time is, anymore, really,
but that’s what the clock says. I don’t know how long has passed. The sun
just set, barely; there’s still red over the water. The moon is up already, gold
and full. I am trapped in a house without windows or doors, but I have
running water, I have scones and chocolate, I have a working furnace and
milk in the fridge and a bag full of apples, minus one. My phone works, it’s
just – as if no one else in the world exists. I don’t understand this kind of
disaster. If that’s even what this is.
[DISTANT LAUGHTER]
On the flight over here I sat beside a woman who shared her bag of
butterscotch candy when the plane took off. I’d never been on a plane
before that, not even when I was a kid. The woman’s name was Maebh, she
had – long white hair. She wasn’t old, maybe like in her forties. Her eyes were
the, like, most ridiculous shade of green, like actual emeralds. Every time I
fell asleep I woke up to find her watching me, but that sounds really fucking
creepy, and it didn’t feel that way. It felt like she was interested in me. Is that
– stupidly naïve? I dreamed about her, she was sitting on a rock – no, three
rocks, a great big flat boulder balanced on two smaller ones, like a table –
she was still wearing her grey tailored suit, filing her nails. She said, “We’ve
heard the reverberations even here, such is the gravity of their choice; so
greatly have we been untethered from our own axes.” I remember in the
dream thinking oh, okay, this is how Irish people talk, I guess, they’re a nation
of poets, aren’t they? Maybe I would have found the whole thing weirder, but
all of this has been so surreal. Winning the competition. Being shipped off
here, like someone important. Leaving the country, coming to Europe,

coming to Ireland, this big empty house – only it was weird, wasn’t it? People
aren’t like that, they don’t – don’t do that, not in the real world.
[PAPER UNCRUMPLING]
“Number six: go to the kitchen and open the cupboard directly to the left of
the fridge.”
[SIGHS] Might as well.
[FOOTSTEPS, CREAKING CUPBOARD DOOR]
Ha. That’s funny.
It’s a bag of butterscotch candy. Same brand as Maebh had on the plane.
[CRINKLING]
Why is it that you find butterscotch in the weirdest places? I always thought it
just appeared in someone’s pockets, or in a tin somewhere, randomly. It
doesn’t seem like a thing that you can buy. Is this all I’ll eat for the night?
Candy and chocolate and honey and apples?
It’s not really food for a real person. Hey, Becca, is this what you eat? Is this
what your partner eats, all sugar and...fruit? [LAUGHS]
You were so disarming on the phone. You sound nothing like Anna, there’s a.
Lightness to your voice that she doesn’t have. Maybe you just sound happier.
There’s a change in a person’s voice that happens when they’re joyful, truly
instead of just. Filling the minutes, I guess. I know what that’s like, too, to
stack activities on top of one another. The sacrificial altar of time. [LAUGHS]
That’s something Mabel would say, wouldn’t she? Something about death
and time eating itself. Feeding it with entropy. I had to take a physics class in
high school, to graduate - do they do that here, too, is that like a universal
school trait, making people muddle through subjects they have no interest
in, just to test their rote memorization skills? Or prepare them for jobs they
don’t want or that don’t exist anymore? I don’t know anything about the Irish
school system, but people - they’re just the same all over. I was never good
at any math classes. I learned in my physics class that the only way we can
measure that time exists at all is through entropy. Through things decaying
and dying. So time and death are twins.

[LAUGHS, THEN SIGHS]
No one’s listening. There can’t be anyone at the other end of this - recorder,
it’s. It’d be. Vulgar, or something. Maybe. Or else they just don’t care about
that. Politeness or - the social contract. I had wondered if they’d bugged the
house, I mean if - if you had, but. I don’t know. I don’t know.
I can see how a person could go crazy in here for too long, just talking to
themselves. We’re good at that, aren’t we, girls like us? Making ourselves go
crazy? Or maybe that’s just what it looks like to everyone else. Making
connections that aren’t there, or aren’t, like. Immediately visible. In my spare
time, I - [CHUCKLES] I sew historical costumes. Spare time’s all I have, really.
Filling the minutes, like I said. That’s all costuming is - making connections
where no one else sees them. There’s this stitch called a slip stitch - it’s what
makes seams look like they’re connecting by nothing until you pull at them to
look. So I know how to follow threads too.
Whatever.
[SIGHS]
“Number seven: pick up the phone.” Wait, what?
[ANY/ALL BACKGROUND NOISE STOPS]
[BREATHING]
[PHONE RINGS]
[SCREAMS]
[STATIC]
[PHONE RINGING IN THE BACKGROUND]
It’s been ringing the whole time I - god. I dropped this recorder but I think
it’s still working. I still have to keep up my end of the - bargain, or whatever. I
don’t know what this is.
I don’t want to pick up. I know it doesn’t make sense, I know it doesn’t - ah,
fuck it, I’ll -

[ANSWER PHONE NOISES] Hello?
[STATIC]
[DISTANT VOICE, THROUGH STATIC] Tressa Davies?
Yes, that’s - Yeah that’s me I’m trapped in this weird house on the coast do
you think you can send someone I don’t know what’s going on I [VOICE LAUGHS] Tressa Davies. Remember the mourning dove?
[PHONE CLATTERS]
[SCREAMS]
What the fuck is happening! What the fuck is happening - what is
[HYPERVENTILATING] I - I - I don’t know what to do, I don’t know what you
want me to do, I don’t know what you want from me, just tell me what you
want so I can - I’m going to [RUNNING SOUNDS, VOMITING SOUNDS]
Okay. Okay. You’re okay, you’re - it’s okay. [SHAKY BREATHS]
[LONG PAUSE]
I know someone is listening now. You kind of - this is overplaying your hand,
isn’t it? Because now I know you can hear me. Like when Anna - when Mabel
erased those messages on her inbox and Anna knew. Some people just like
to play at being distant.
Is this what it feels like to be trapped in a spiderweb? That’s how you want
me to feel, isn’t it? It must be, or why - why would you I don’t know how you got my personal information. I don’t - does it matter,
really?
[SIGHS. SOUNDS OF CRUMPLED PAPER]
“Number eight: talk about a time you made a bargain.”
Faeries and their freaking bargains. Okay. Um. Let me think, let me think.

Once, way back in - it must have been third or fourth grade, I don’t think I
was more than nine years old - there was a girl named Larissa Knight. Larissa,
do you know what that means? It means fortress. Something strong,
something standing. Larissa Knight was - god, she wasn’t even bright, she
wasn’t even clever, but she was pretty. Her disability - oh, for a little while I
went to Primary, this, like, special school for kids with various disabilities? I
know, I know, insert special school jokes, insert short bus jokes, whatever.
[PAUSE] Larissa was deaf. She used to make fun of the other girls, the ones
with more obvious physical problems. Made up cruel names. Hid their
crutches. Tormented them in that particular way only a kid can. A bully,
basically. Everyone’s known at least one.
Anyway. One day I went to school and Larissa was wearing this ring. This little
opal ring, with the stone cut in the shape of a heart. I saw it, and - I wanted it.
No, honestly, more than that, I felt like it belonged to me, like I was owed it,
like it should never have belonged to her in the first place - Larissa Knight,
who tripped Miel Figueroa, a girl with polio, with her legs in fucking braces,
and then laughed when Miel couldn’t get up again - it just wasn’t fair, and I
knew it wasn’t fair. You know what I mean? When you just. You just know?
I wasn’t exactly a scheming kid. I wasn’t super precocious, even, I liked to
keep my head down, mostly, but it bothered me more than almost anything
had. So I went up to Larissa during recess. Larissa loved hopscotch, I knew
that, so I said if you beat me in hopscotch, I’ll do your homework for a week.
And Larissa said yes, obviously, because - well, how the fuck was I going to
beat her? She could run and jump, I was a tiny little twig with a malformed
chest. She took her turn, and then - well. This is embarrassing, I was such a
little psycho. When it was my turn, I made sure no one was watching, and
collapsed on the ground.
All the teachers wanted to know what happened. I told them - [LAUGHS]. I
told them that Larissa had pushed me over, after stealing my ring; the ring
my dad bought me when my mother died, so I’d know she was always with
me. I overdid it, for sure, but I was a little kid, I was crying and bloody-kneed
and Larissa was bigger than me, stronger, and everyone knew she was mean.
Even Miss Ouvriers, the principal. We had to go see her. I hadn’t been in her
office since the first day of school, when she gave - we were all scared of her,
but that just helped me look more pitiful. She said: Larissa, I’m so
disappointed in you. I thought you had such potential. I thought you could
have been - [PAUSES, AS THOUGH CATCHING HERSELF]

I still have that ring. I still wear it, sometimes.
“Number nine: check your voicemail.”
What Oh, there’s Fuck. Fuck. Okay. There’s a message, I’m going to –
[BEEP]
AUTOMATED VOICEMAIL: You have one. New message. First message.
Sent. Today, at seven. Fifty-six.
[CRACKLE]
BECCA OVER VOICEMAIL: Hi, Tressa, this is Becca De La Rosa - my partner’s
here, too, hang on MABEL: Hi, Tressa!
TRESSA, WHISPERING OVER THEM: Oh my god.
BECCA: We heard you were having some trouble in the house MABEL: Yes, we’re ever so sorry about that.
BECCA: We are, we’re so sorry. We wanted this to be fun and relaxing for
you, not stressful. If you’re having difficulty opening the door, sometime it
just needs to be jiggled a specific way; the keys to the window are in the
drawer under the stove. I should have made a note of that, that’s my fault.
MABEL: [LAUGHING]
BECCA: [ASIDE, TRYING NOT TO LAUGH] Shh, stop. So, yeah. I know you’re
worried, but really, I wouldn’t be too freaked out. It’s an old house, it has...a
mind of its own, sometimes.
MABEL: Yes, one might call it that.

BECCA: [TO MABEL] I’m just - [LAUGHS, MUFFLED BUT HELPLESS; CLEARS
THROAT] So, yeah. We just wanted to let you know. We’re here - I mean, not
here, but we’re. We’re - monitoring the situation, and you really don’t have
anything to worry about from Sally’s house.
MABEL: You mean your grandmother’s house.
BECCA: Yeah, my grandmother’s house. What’d I say?
MABEL: [CLEARLY DELIGHTED] You said TRESSA [OVERLAID]: Oh my god. Oh my god, oh my god.
BECCA: [COLDER, THOUGHTFUL] I did say that, didn’t I? Isn’t it funny how
the truth slides out? How the truth TRESSA: What BECCA: - pockmarks even the shape of reality? Even truth itself?
MABEL: There is no truth but time reaching back eternally on itself. Isn’t that
right, dear?
BECCA: Tressa. We know who you are. And you know who we are, don’t
you? Anna.
MABEL: And Mabel.
[BOTH LAUGH]
BECCA/ANNA: Oh, I am sorry. We tried, didn’t we? We played our parts, for
a little bit, anyway.
MABEL: I think I have the easier task, not willing to part with any separate
face for a second. Didn’t you wonder about my name?
BECCA/ANNA: I could let you out. Maybe. If the house wanted me to, which
it doesn’t. [LOUDER, CLEARER] You made a deal, Tressa. You signed a
contract. There’s an agreement, roles to fulfill. Do you think anything’s going
to save you now? Do you think anything could?
MABEL: Farewell, small girl.

BECCA/ANNA: Good luck.
VOICEMAIL: To keep this message, press seven. To erase it, press [STATIC]
[OUTRO]
Mabel is written by Becca De La Rosa and Mabel Martin, and produced by
Becca De La Rosa. The voice of Tressa Davies is Tressa Evans-Salvemini. The
music in this episode was by Meydän, Magna Ingress, how the night came,
Borrtex, Mutestare, Parallel Park, and (morse), and all of it is available to
download from the Free Music Archive at freemusicarchive.org. For more
information about this episode, including a full tracklist and transcript, visit us
online at mabelpodcast.com.
We rely on your help to keep Mabel going. If you enjoy what we do, please
check out the range of rewards on our Patreon at
patreon.com/mabelpodcast. Huge thank you to Ciaran Buchan, Bettina
Gaschler, Andrew Ernest, and Kate Fox for your support.

