Man's voice: We have some breaking news tonight, as NBN can confirm the validity of a 911 call that leaked online five hours ago. The call made late Thursday night by American Public Radio investigative reporter, Lia Haddock, regards the apparent shooting of long thought to be missing person, Dr. Max Finlayson. Finlayson was the infamous lead neuroscientist from the research facility known as Limetown. Miss Haddock had recently come to fame from her investigation into that research facility which has led to a public sensation and outcry around the origins and purpose of Limetown as well as questions around the accountability of Ray Lore and its former CEO and media titan RB Villard. The 911 call made earlier this week which we will play for you now seems to be in regards to a continuation of that investigation which went horribly wrong. Certain information has been removed as to not endanger the ongoing investigation.

Woman's voice: 911, where is your emergency?

Lia Haddock: Hi... Uh, yes... I'm calling about a... I'm not sure... a... shooting? Uh...

W: Okay ma'am, can you tell me where this shooting took place?

LH: Uh, yes. H-hang on, I have that written down. The address is BLEEP

W: Okay, dispatches are being sent now, can you tell me the name --

LH: Send more. Whatever you're sending, send more.

W: Are there multiple shooters?

LH: I-I don't know. I don't... This- This is a very dangerous situation and I'm not sure what's happening.

W: Do you have a description of the shooter?

LH: No! I'm an hour away but we- we were on the phone and he said there were other people there and then I- I heard a shot.

W: Who is the "he" you're referring to?

LH: Max Finlayson.

W: Okay, and can I ask your name?

LH: Lia Haddock.

W: Okay, Lia I'm going to stay on with you but I'm going to switch over to local dispatch.

LH: This is my fault. This is my fault -- I-I have to go. I'm going back.

W: Lia, don't go back, okay? Just stay on with me? Okay? Where are you now? ... Hello? ... Lia?

M: Some have questioned why the information detailed in this call was not made public earlier by either American Public Radio or Lia Haddock herself and furthermore, what else they might be hiding.

LH: This is Lia Haddock. By now, you've all heard some variation of this report and probably wondered why there hasn't been a response by our team. This is a complicated and... perilous situation. My response will come Monday.

