Learning English podcasts… from the
Hellenic American Union©
Level: Intermediate
Lesson: 12
Title: “Bubblegum Mary”
Summary:

Vanessa and Nick interview Bubblegum Mary, a famous clown.
In this radio broadcast, Vanessa and Nick are in the middle of a live show in a radio
studio interviewing Bubblegum Mary. Listen to their conversation and answer the
question that follows about the main idea.
Dialogue:
Nick: Today our special guest is the famous clown Bubblegum Mary

Vanessa: Hi Bubblegum Mary. How did you start clowning?
Bubblegum Mary: I am a self-taught clown, but I studied Drama in college.

Vanessa: I was wondering, does a clown ever feel blue?

Bubblegum Mary: Oh, yes. And when that happens, I hit the shops!

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 12

1

Nick: Bubblegum Mary, your unique character is adored by thousands…

Vanessa: And we all love your hilarious facial expressions.., your comical voice..,
and your truly lively appearance… I guess they’re the reason for your success…
What’s your most unforgettable clowning experience?

Bubblegum Mary: Thank you for your kind words…My most unforgettable
experience? Hmm… It was five years ago during a Halloween event I was booked
for. That’s when I met my husband, who, by the way, was also dressed up as a
clown.

Nick: Isn’t that funny!
Vanessa: How interesting! Thank you so much Bubblegum Mary for joining us
today. We will now take a quick break.

Now answer the following question…
What did the quest talk about?
She talked about her profession, clowning.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 12

2

Now listen to the conversation again. Afterwards there will be 4 questions on the
details.
Nick:

Today our special guest is the famous clown Bubblegum Mary

Vanessa:

Hi Bubblegum Mary. How did you start clowning?

Bubblegum Mary: I am a self-taught clown, but I studied Drama in college.
Vanessa:

I was wondering, does a clown ever feel blue?

Bubblegum Mary: Oh, yes. And when that happens, I hit the shops!
Nick:

Bubblegum Mary, your unique character is adored by
thousands…

Vanessa:

And we all love your hilarious facial expressions.., your comical
voice.., and your truly lively appearance… I guess they’re the
reason for your success. What’s your most unforgettable
clowning experience?

Bubblegum Mary: Thank you for your kind words…My most unforgettable
experience? Hmm… It was five years ago during a Halloween
event I was booked for. That’s when I met my husband, who,
by the way, was also dressed up as a clown.
Nick:

Isn’t that funny!

Vanessa:

How interesting! Thank you so much Bubblegum Mary for
joining us today. We’ll now take a quick break.

Now get ready to answer some questions…
1. Bubblegum Mary says “I’m a self taught clown.” What does she mean?
She’s learned clowning on her own.
2. Vanessa asks Bubblegum Mary “I was wondering, does a clown ever
feel blue?” What does Vanessa mean?
She would like to know if clowns ever feel sad.
3. Bubblegum Mary says “When that happens, I hit the shops.” What does she
mean?
When she gets sad, she goes shopping in order to get over her sadness.
4. Nick says “Isn’t that funny!” What does he mean?

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 12

3

It was a strange coincidence that both Bubblegum Mary and her husband
were dressed up as clowns.
Please visit our site at www.hau.gr to find the transcripts, explanations and activities.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 12

4

GLOSSARY
Adore (verb): to like or love something very much

e.g. Don’t you just adore that dress!
Blue (adjective): sad or depressed

e.g. what’s wrong with you? You’ve been looking blue all week.
Book (verb): to arrange with a hotel, restaurant, theatre to have a room, table, seat
etc. on a particular date.

e.g. I’d like to book a table for two at 8 o’clock.

Clown (+ around) (verb): (often disapproving) to behave in a silly way, usually in
order to make other people laugh.

e.g. Stop clowning around and get to work!

Comical (adjective): funny or amusing because of being strange or unusual.

e.g. I find the whole situation comical. I mean, whoever heard of a dog being bitten
by a man!
Expression (noun): a look on a persons face which shows their thoughts.

e.g. There was a worried expression on her face.
Hilarious (adjective): extremely funny

e.g. Sam told me a hilarious joke yesterday. I couldn’t stop laughing.
Self-taught (adjective): when someone has learnt something without any formal
lessons

e.g. Elvis was a self taught guitarist. He never had a lesson in his life.

Unforgettable (adjective): something you cannot forget, usually because it is so
beautiful, interesting, enjoyable etc.

e.g. an unforgettable experience

Unique (adjective): the only one of its kind

e.g. Houdini had a unique talent for escapology.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 12

5

ACTIVITIES
Activity 1

Practice using the words in the glossary. Choose the most appropriate word from the
glossary to complete the following sentences.
1. Do you know Pete? He’s

.

2. Everyone’s fingerprints are

.

3. His

changed from amusement to surprise.

4. Nobody taught me how to type. I’m
5. She

.

working with children and animals.

6. The music is what makes the movie so
7. The people in the carnival all wore

.
hats with bells on.

8. Try to be a little more serious and stop

about.

9. Watching comedy shows always stop me feeling
10. You should

.

your tickets to the circus early to avoid disappointment.

Activity 2

Complete the sentences with either the adjective or the adverb.
1. This stamp is unique / uniquely. There are no others like it.
2. Getting a month / monthly bill for over 100 Euro is nothing to laugh about.
3. Life in the circus must be hard / hardly for the animals.
4. Some people claim that animals in the circus are treated cruel / cruelly.
5. The parade was cancelled because of the heavy / heavily rain.
6. She laughed loud / loudly at the joke.
7. ‘Reliable’ / ‘Reliably’ is not a word that could be used to describe my car.
8. Can you tell if someone is lying from their facial / facially expressions?
9. Breaking my leg was one of the most unforgettable / unforgettably painful
events of my life.
10. He looked comical / comically in his pyjamas.

KEY TO ACTIVITIES
Activity 1. 1. hilarious 2. unique 3. expression 4. self taught 5. adores 6.
unforgettable 7. comical 8. clowning 9. blue 10. book
Activity 2. 1. unique 2. monthly 3. hard 4. cruelly 5. heavy 6. loudly 7. Reliable 8.
facial 9. unforgettably 10. comical
Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 12

6

