Learning English podcasts … from the
Hellenic American Union
Level: Advanced
Lesson: 31
Title: “Archiving the Web”
Summary:

Vanessa and Alexander are interviewing Brewster Kahle, founder of the Internet Archive
who speaks about his efforts to collect all the published works of mankind.
The advanced podcasts are a series of excerpts of broadcasts from a live radio show
entitled World report. The main hostess of the show is Vanessa. Vanessa with her
reporters Nick, Alexander, Lisa and Denise are interviewing their guests and provide us
with information about some current but rather unique affairs. First you hear the entire
excerpt and you are asked a general main idea question. Then, you hear the same
excerpt in two parts. After each part you are asked three to four questions on some of
the details.
In this episode of World Report, Vanessa and Alexander are in the middle of a live show
in a radio studio. Alexander is reporting live from San Francisco. Brewster Kahle,
founder of the Internet Archive, also joins them. Listen to their conversation and answer
the question that follows about the main idea.
Dialogue:
Vanessa:

Hi and welcome to World Report. Alexander is in San
Francisco and he’s joined by Brewster Kahle, founder of
the Internet Archive. Thank you both.

Alexander:

Hi Vanessa.

1

Brewster:

Good afternoon.

Vanessa:

Brewster, could I start by asking you… on your web site
you mention that your mission is ‘global access to all
human knowledge’? Sounds mind-boggling. Could you
elaborate?

Brewster:

Well, suppose you took all the published works of
mankind, then all the music, video and TV material,
software, web pages ever produced, preserved them for
the long term and made them available to people…

Alexander:

Incredible. So you’re not just archiving web pages.

Brewster:

Far from it. Along with web pages, we’re storing music,
movies and books. And it’s so rewarding to see our efforts
bearing fruit.

Vanessa:

Sounds awesome.

2

Alexander:

Brewster, I guess you’ve accumulated a huge amount of
material by now.

Brewster:

Well, we started back in 1996 by taking snapshots of all
available web sites every two months and storing them on
hard drives. It’s now about 500 terabytes of information.
The archive is growing at about 50 terabytes each month.

Alexander:

Incredible. It must take a huge number of servers to
keep all that in storage.

Brewster:

Well, it does. And we’re saving double copies. History’s
taught us archives should always be saved in multiple
copies in various locations. I suppose we have the
destruction of the Library of Alexandria to thank for
that.

3

Vanessa:

I’m sorry?

Brewster:

In 300 BC, they set out to collect every book from every
possible source, and surprisingly they almost got there.
But it all went up in smoke. One of the catastrophes of
civilization, and there’s a lot to be learned from that.

Vanessa:

Brewster Kahle, Alexander, thank you both very much.

Now answer the following question…
What is Brewster trying to collect?
All the published works of mankind, all the music, video and TV material, software, web
pages ever produced.

Now listen again to the dialogue in parts. After each part there will be 3 to 4 questions
on some details...

4

Part 1
Vanessa:

Hi and welcome to World Report. Alexander is in San Francisco and he’s
joined by Brewster Kahle, founder of the Internet Archive. Thank you
both.

Alexander: Hi Vanessa.
Brewster:

Good afternoon.

Vanessa:

Brewster, could I start by asking you… on your web site you mention that
your mission is ‘global access to all human knowledge’? Sounds mindboggling. Could you elaborate?

Brewster:

Well, suppose you took all the published works of mankind, then all the
music, video and TV material, software, web pages ever produced,
preserved them for the long term and made them available to people…

Alexander: Incredible. So you’re not just archiving web pages.
Brewster:

Far from it. Along with web pages, we’re storing music, movies and
books. And it’s so rewarding to see our efforts bearing fruit.

Vanessa:

Sounds awesome.

Now answer the following questions …
1. What does Vanessa mean when she says “Sounds mind-boggling”?
When Vanessa says “Sounds mind-boggling”, she means she finds the term
‘global access to all human knowledge’ difficult to understand.
2. What does Alexander mean when he says “Incredible. So you’re not just
archiving web pages”?
When Alexander says “Incredible. So you’re not just archiving web
pages,” he means he finds the idea surprising.
3. What does Vanessa mean when she says “Sounds awesome”?
When Vanessa says “Sounds awesome”, she means she is impressed by the
project.

Now listen again to the second part of the dialogue.
Part 2

5

Alexander:

Brewster, I guess you’ve accumulated a huge amount of material by
now.

Brewster:

Well, we started back in 1996 by taking snapshots of all available web
sites every two months and storing them on hard drives. It’s now about
500 terabytes of information. The archive is growing at about 50
terabytes each month.

Alexander: Incredible. It must take a huge number of servers to keep all that in
storage.
Brewster:

Well, it does. And we’re saving double copies. History’s taught us
archives should always be saved in multiple copies in various locations. I
suppose we have the destruction of the Library of Alexandria to
thank for that.

Vanessa:

I’m sorry?

Brewster:

In 300 BC, they set out to collect every book from every possible source,
and surprisingly they almost got there. But it all went up in smoke. One
of the catastrophes of civilization, and there’s a lot to be learned from
that.

Vanessa:

Brewster Kahle, Alexander, thank you both very much.

Now answer the following questions…
1. What does Alexander mean when he says “I guess you’ve accumulated a huge
amount of material by now”?
When Alexander says “I guess”, he means he assumes that it’s the case.
2. What does Alexander mean when he says “It must take a huge number of servers
to keep all that in storage”?
When Alexander says “It must take”, he means he assumes that it’s the case.
3. What does Brewster mean when he says “ I suppose we have the destruction of
the Library of Alexandria to thank for that.”
When Brewster says “I suppose we have the destruction of the Library of
Alexandria to thank for that.” he means that the destruction of the ancient
library has taught mankind something very important.

Please visit our site at www.hau.gr to find the transcripts, explanations and activities.

6

GLOSSARY
Accumulate: Alexander told Brewster, “I guess you’ve accumulated a huge amount of
material by now.” When you accumulate something, you collect more and more of it
over a period of time. People accumulate wealth, data, evidence, books, and paintings.
Archive: An archive is a collection of records, documents or electronic data stored at a
special place or in a computer, e.g. a historical archive, a photo archive. The word
stems from Greek, and as in the word “chemistry”, “archaeology”, etc. “ch” is
pronounced /k/. The word is also a verb. People archive documents, data,
photographs, etc.
Bear fruit: Brewster Kahle said, “It’s so rewarding to see our efforts bearing fruit.” If
something (e.g. someone’s efforts, or his/her work) bears fruit, it produces the
successful results that the person has hoped for.
For the long term: The expression ‘for the long term’ means ‘for the future’ or ‘for a
long time’:
Go up in smoke: We find out from the interview that the Library of Alexandria was
about to accomplish its goal of storing every book from every possible source when it
went up in smoke. You can guess from this statement that the library was completely
destroyed by a fire. This is the literal meaning of the expression. In a metaphorical
sense, if your hopes or plans go up in smoke, they fail to materialize.
Take snapshots: You heard that the staff of the Internet Archive started their work by
taking snapshots of all available web sites every two months. A snapshot is a
photograph.
Terabytes: Brewster said that the team has so far stored 500 terabytes of
information. 1 gigabyte is approximately 1,000 megabytes. 1 terabyte is 1 million
megabytes. The scale goes mega-, giga-, tera-.

7

ACTIVITIES

Activity 1

Practice using words and expressions from the glossary. Choose the most appropriate
word or expression to fill in each blank.
1. All during the party, Stephen kept taking … of the children.
2. By investing their savings wisely, they … a fortune.
3. As a result of the dry period, several of the forests ….
4. The archive is growing at about 50 …each month.
5. Their efforts eventually …. It was such a rewarding experience.
6. The staff of the municipal … was kind enough to let me browse through their
collection of World War II photographs.
7. Art museums use special restoration methods to preserve their art exhibits ….

Activity 2

A. Consider the following explanations
1. The expression ‘Sounds mind-boggling’ is used when we are confused, or when
we find something difficult to grasp or imagine.
Vanessa told Brewster Kahle: “On your web site you mention that your mission is ‘global
access to all human knowledge’? Sounds mind-boggling. Could you elaborate?”

2. To react to something that impresses us, we say ‘Sounds awesome’ or
‘Incredible.’
When Brewster Kahle said that besides web pages, the archive also included software,
music, video and TV material, Alexander said, ‘Incredible. ’ And when Brewster said
that along with web pages, they were storing music, movies and books, Vanessa said,
‘Sounds awesome.’
3. The modal verb must + the bare infinitive is sometimes used to express a logical
assumption: “It must take a huge number of servers to keep all that in storage.”

8

4. The expressions ‘I guess…’ and ‘I suppose…’ are used when the speaker is pretty
sure that something is true: “I guess you’ve accumulated a huge amount of material.” /
“I suppose we have the destruction of the Library of Alexandria to thank for that.”

B. Read the following statements or questions and give an appropriate response
selected from the aforementioned words or phrases to express amazement.
1. Did you know it took the National Gallery in London years to realize that one of its
Sunflower paintings by Van Gogh was a fake?
Your reply: …
2. Wangari Maathai, the 2004 Nobel Peace Prize winner, launched a campaign and
managed to plant 30 million trees.
Your reply: …
3. The adult human brain holds around 100 billion nerve cells.
Your reply: …

C. Read the following statements about Albert Einstein. React to them, making guesses
and assumptions. Use ‘I suppose…’, ‘I guess…’ or ‘He must…’
1. Einstein’s teachers gave him very low grades.
Your reply: …
2. He graduated from university at 19.
Your reply: …
3. At age 26, he came up with his theory of relativity.
Your reply: …

9

KEY TO ACTIVITIES
Activity 1:
1. snapshots
2. accumulated
3. went up in smoke
4. terabytes
5. bore fruit
6. archive
7. for the long term
Activity 2B: (possible answers)
1. Incredible
2. Sounds awesome
3. Sounds mind-boggling
Activity 2C: (possible answers)
1. I guess they thought he was an underachiever.
2. I suppose he did a lot of studying on his own.
3. He must have been a genius.

10

