Learning English podcasts … from the
Hellenic American Union©
Level: Intermediate
Lesson: 13
Title: “Balcony Gardening”
Summary:

Vanessa and Nick interview Tony who speaks about his balcony garden in Toronto.
In this episode Vanessa and Nick are in the middle of a live show in a radio studio.
Listen carefully and answer the question that follows about the main idea of the
conversation.
Dialogue:
Vanessa: Hey Nick, guess where I spend my vacation last summer – in Crete!!

Nick: Wow, lucky you, it must have been a blast!

Vanessa: It sure was! It was just gorgeous, especially all the flowers on my hotel
balcony.

Nick: Why? What was so special about it?
Vanessa: Oh, it was just … beautiful! There were so many different flowers and
plants on it that it looked like… I don’t know how to describe it to you… like the
Garden of Eden in miniature maybe? There were lots of flowers we don’t have here
like jasmine, which smells great.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 13

1

Nick: Wow, sounds wonderful! Balcony gardening is just getting started here in
Toronto.

Vanessa: Now, here’s Lisa live from Toronto on line one to tell us more about
balcony gardening.
Vanessa: Hi, Lisa.
Nick: Hi there, Lisa.
Lisa: Hi. Balcony gardening is one of the latest trends in TO. Tony, here, is going to
tell us about how he has turned his balcony into a small lush sanctuary.

Tony: Hi all. Well, because of the weather in Canada balcony gardening is probably
not as easy as it might be in Greece. For starters my condo is way up on the 24th
floor with a balcony facing north – strike one. Strike two is the fact we’re so high up,
so there’s less moisture in the atmosphere. But even though my balcony is very
small, I’ve still managed to create a pretty impressive garden. All you need is
patience and a green thumb.

Lisa: You certainly seem to have both Tony. Back to you Vanessa and Nick.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 13

2

Now answer the following question…
What are Vanessa, Lisa, Tony and Nick talking about?
They’re talking about balcony gardening in Greece and in Toronto.

Now listen again to the dialogue in parts. After each part there will be 3 to 4
questions on the details...
Part 1
Vanessa:

Hey Nick, guess where I spend my vacation last summer – in Crete!!

Nick:

Wow, lucky you, it must have been a blast!

Vanessa:

It sure was! It was just gorgeous, especially all the flowers on my
hotel balcony.

Nick:

Why? What was so special about it?

Vanessa:

Oh, it was just … beautiful! There were so many different flowers and
plants on it that it looked like… I don’t know how to describe it to
you… like the Garden of Eden in miniature maybe? There were lots of
flowers we don’t have here like jasmine, which smells great.

Nick:

Wow, sounds wonderful! Balcony gardening is just getting started
here in Toronto.

Vanessa:

Now, here’s Lisa live from Toronto on line one to tell us more about
balcony gardening.

Now answer some questions…
1. Nick says: “Wow, lucky you, it must have been a blast!” What does “blast”
mean?
The word “blast” is used to describe an exciting experience or event.
2. What does Nick express when he says: “Wow, sounds wonderful!”
He expresses his surprise and pleasure.

3. Why does Nick ask Vanessa: “What was so special about it?”

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 13

3

Because he wants to find out more about Vanessa’s hotel balcony on Crete.

Back at the radio studio again; Vanessa and Nick are talking to Lisa and Tony live
from his condo in Toronto…
Part 2
Vanessa:

Hi, Lisa.

Nick:

Hi there, Lisa.

Lisa: Hi. Balcony gardening is one of the latest trends in TO. Tony, here, is going to
tell us about how he has turned his balcony into a small lush sanctuary.
Tony: Hi all. Well, because of the weather in Canada balcony gardening is probably
not as easy as it might be in Greece. For starters my condo is way up on the 24th
floor with a balcony facing north – strike one. Strike two is the fact we’re so high up,
so there’s less moisture in the atmosphere. But even though my balcony is very
small, I’ve still managed to create a pretty impressive garden. All you need is
patience and a green thumb.
Lisa: You certainly seem to have both Tony. Back to you Vanessa and Nick.

Now answer some questions…
1.

Tony says: “…my condo is way up on the 24th floor…” What does “way
up” mean?
Way up means high up.

2.

Tony says: “But even though my balcony is very small, I’ve still managed
to create a pretty impressive garden.” What do you think “impressive”
means?
When something is impressive it is so nice or beautiful that you admire it.

3.

What does Tony mean when he says: “All you need is patience and a
green thumb.”?
He means you need nothing else except patience and a talent for
gardening.

Please visit our site at www.hau.gr to find the transcripts, explanations and activities.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 13

4

GLOSSARY
Blast (noun): an exciting or enjoyable experience or event, often a party.

e.g. You should have come with us last night, we had a real blast!

Lush (adjective): (1) (of places, furniture, decoration, etc.) expensive and luxurious.

E.g. a lush carpet

(2) A lush area has a lot of green, healthy plants, grass and trees.

E.g. lush green valleys

Moisture (noun): water in very small drops. Most plants need moisture in order to
grow. E.g. Cactuses do not need a lot of moisture. That is why they are found in dry

climates.

Pretty (adverb): informally pretty is used to mean “quite.”

E.g. The house has four bedrooms, so it's pretty big.

Sanctuary (noun): a safe place, one that offers protection, peace and quiet.

E.g. If I want some peace and quiet, I take sanctuary in my study.

Trend (noun): a change in a situation or in the way people see or do things.

E.g. The trend at the moment is towards a more natural and less made-up look.
Turn into (verb): to change something into something else.

E.g. Peter turned his basement into a pool room.
Way up (prepositional phrase): high up.

e.g. Can you see that plane, way up there?
CULTURAL INFORMATION
The word condo is an informal word for condominium. A condo in North America
is an apartment whose owners also own the common areas of the building such as
hallways, yards and other facilities.
Many American cities have nicknames. For example: New York: “The Big Apple”,
Detroit: “Mo Town”, Los Angeles: “City of Angels” and Toronto: “TO”.
Strike a word coming from baseball means disadvantage. So when we say “strike
one…” we mean ‘the first disadvantage is.” “Strike two” means ‘the second
disadvantage”, etc

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 13

5

ACTIVITIES
Activity 1

Practice using the words in the glossary. Choose the most appropriate word from the
glossary to complete these sentences.
1. Mary’s party was a

! I had a fabulous time.

2. My daughter is

excited about joining the school choir.

3. I sat on the park bench and I got wet. There was a lot of

on

it.
in my grandmother’s

4. When I am stressed out, I take
house.
5. I have a cabin

in the mountains.

6. Now that our son has moved out of the house, we’re going to
his bedroom into an office.
7. I wonder how she keeps her garden so beautiful and
8. Fur coats are not a popular _________ these days.
Activity 2

Join the sentences with “so” or “although”. Make any necessary changes.
1. Maria had a lot to do. She decided to go jogging with her friends in the park.

2. On the way there, they changed their mind. They went to a café, instead.

3. The café was really crowded. They managed to find a place to sit.

4. They had a very good time. They promised each other to do it again soon.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 13

6

KEY TO ACTIVITIES
Activity 1. 1. blast 2. quite 3. moisture 4. take 5. way up 6. turn 7. lush 8. trend
Activity 2. 1. Although Maria had a lot to do, she decided to go jogging. 2. On the
way there, they changed their mind so they went to a café instead. 3. Although the
café was really crowded they managed to find a place to sit. 4. They had a really
good time so they promised each other to do it again.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 13

7

