Level: Upper Intermediate
Lesson: 21
Title: “Trip to Island”
Summary:

Lisa and Denise take a trip to an island.
The upper intermediate podcasts are a series of short rather informal dialogues
between the main characters of a radio show: Vanessa, Lisa, Alexander and Nick.
Through this series of podcasts we have the chance to get to know how our
reporters interact in their daily lives and what they do to escape from routine and
work. First, you hear the entire excerpt and you are asked a general main idea
question. Then, you hear the same excerpt either in two parts or in its entirety
again. After each part you are asked three to four questions on some of the details.
Denise and Lisa have gone to an island to get away for the weekend. Listen to their
conversation and answer the question that follows about the main idea.
Dialogue:
Lisa:

I know we came here to swim and get away from it all…but while
we’re here, do you wanna visit the Wildlife Hospital on the island?

Denise: Oooh, I didn’t know there was something like that here!!!
Lisa:

Yeah, I read about it in the newspaper. It’s sort of a
rehabilitation center for animals-mostly ones which have been
shot and wounded by poachers.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 21

1

Denise: Oh, that’s awful!!! Isn’t there a law or something that protects wild
animals?
Lisa:

Yes, but unfortunately not many hunters pay attention to these
laws, so illegal shooting is prevalent.

Denise: Now that you mention it…I remember hearing something on the
news.

Lisa:

Aha! The point of the sanctuary is to nurse the wounded animals
back to health and then release them into their natural habitat.

Denise: I think it’s great that there are some people who care so much!
What do you think, should we take a dip, dry off and then hit
the road?
Lisa:

Great, we’ll ask one of the locals to steer us in the direction of the
sanctuary.

Now answer some questions …
What are Denise and Lisa talking about?
They’re talking about the Wildlife Hospital on the island.
Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 21

2

Now listen again to the dialogue in parts. After each part there will be 3 to 4
questions on the details...
Part 1
Lisa:

I know we came here to swim and get away from it all…but while
we’re here, do you wanna visit the Wildlife Hospital on the island?

Denise: Oooh, I didn’t know there was something like that here!!!
Lisa:

Yeah, I read about it in the newspaper. It’s sort of a
rehabilitation center for animals-mostly for those ones which
have been shot and wounded by poachers.

Denise: Oh, that’s awful!!! Isn’t there a law or something that protects wild
animals?
Lisa:

Yes, but unfortunately not many hunters pay attention to these
laws, so illegal shooting is prevalent.

Now answer some questions…
1. Lisa says, “It’s sort of a rehabilitation center for animals” What is a
rehabilitation center?
It‘s a place where someone can go to get treatment (in order to become
healthy again)
2. Lisa says “for animals-mostly ones which have been shot and wounded by
poachers” What is a “poacher”?
A “poacher” is someone who hunts animals illegally.
3. Lisa says “not many hunters pay attention to these laws, so illegal shooting is
prevalent.” What does “prevalent” mean?
When something is prevalent it happens very often.

Now listen to part 2…
Part 2
Denise: Now that you mention it…I remember hearing something on the
news.
Lisa:

Aha! The point of the sanctuary is to nurse the wounded animals
back to health and then release them into their natural habitat.

Denise: I think it’s great that there are some people who care so much!
What do you think, should we take a dip, dry off and then hit
the road?
Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 21

3

Lisa:

Great, we’ll ask one of the locals to steer us in the direction of the
sanctuary.

Now answer some questions…
1. Lisa says, “The point of the sanctuary is to nurse the wounded animals back
to health” What is a sanctuary?
A safe place, especially for someone or something being hunted.
2. Denise says, “Should we take a dip,” When you take a dip you what do you
do?
You take a quick swim
3. Denise says, “We’ll hit the road.” What do you think hit the road means?
It means to leave a place.

Please visit our site at www.hau.gr to find the transcripts, explanations and
activities.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 21

4

GLOSSARY
get away from (phrasal verb) is to leave or escape from a person or place, often
when it is difficult to do this.
(e.g. I just want to get away from the hectic pace of the city for a few days.)
hit the road (expression) is to leave a place.
(e.g. I’ve been here for too long. It’s time to hit the road!)
natural habitat are the usual surroundings in which an animal or plant usually
lives.
(e.g. The natural habitat of the whale is the ocean.)
poacher (noun) is someone who hunts animals illegally.
prevalent (adjective) When something is prevalent it commonly exists or happens
very often.
(e.g. Not many hunters pay attention to these laws, so illegal shooting is prevalent.)
rehabilitation center (noun) is a place where someone can go to get treatment in
order to become healthy again. Also known as rehab.
(e.g. a drug rehabilitation clinic)
release (verb) is to free somebody or something.
(e.g. He was released after spending 10 years in jail.
sanctuary (noun) is a safe place, especially for someone or something being
hunted.
(e.g. The church became a sanctuary for the refugees.)
steer (verb) a person (figuratively) or a vehicle is to lead it in the right direction.
(e.g. This map must be wrong! Let’s ask somebody to steer us in the right
direction.)
take a dip (expression) is to take a quick swim.
(e.g. I don’t want to stay at the beach all day. Let’s take a dip and then go home.)

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 21

5

ACTIVITIES
Activity 1

Fill in the gaps with the correct form of the words from the glossary
1) I’d love to stay longer, but it’s very late. I should……………………….!
2) After much negotiation, the hostages were……………………….. .
3) She carefully……………………the car into the garage.
4) The…………………………….of the gorilla is the jungle.
5) There is a wildlife………………….in town where wounded animals are treated.
6) Let’s…………………..in the pool and then go home. I don’t want to sit in the
sun for too long.
7) He checked into a……………………………….to get over his cocaine addiction.
8) Heavy fines are imposed on…………………., which is a good thing since they
might kill endangered species.
9) With all this work, it’s really difficult to…………………………the city for a
weekend.
10) These diseases are more………………….among children. Adults rarely suffer
from them.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 21

6

Activity 2
a) Those animals have been shot and wounded by poachers.
The above phrase is an example of the passive voice.
The active voice would read:
b) Poachers have shot and wounded those animals.
The passive voice is formed by using the verb ‘be’ in the appropriate tense and
the past participle of the verb. The by-phrase is used at the end of the sentence to

show who does the action.

Rewrite these sentences using the passive voice.
1. Poachers use this method to catch wild animals.
……………………………………………………………………………. .
2. The ranger gave the poacher a huge fine.
…………………………………………………………………………… .
3. The employees of the sanctuary will treat the animals very well.
……………………………………………………………………….. .
4. Many people have visited this rehab centre.
……………………………………………………………………….. .
5. The government has funded many more sanctuaries.
……………………………………………………………………….. .

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 21

7

KEY TO ACTIVITIES:
Activity 1
1) hit the road
2) released
3) steered
4) natural habitat
5) sanctuary
6) take a dip
7) rehabilitation centre
8) poachers
9) get away from
10) prevalent
Activity 2
1)
2)
3)
4)
5)

This method is used by poachers to catch wild animals.
The poacher was given a huge fine by the ranger.
The animals will be treated very well.
This rehab centre has been visited by many people.
Many more sanctuaries have been funded by the government.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 21

8

