Level: Intermediate
Lesson: 15
Title: “Crocodiles in Queensland”
Summary:

Vanessa, Nick and Lyn interview Patrick who speaks about crocodiles in Queensland.

_____________________________________________________________________

In this broadcast, Vanessa, and Nick are in the middle of a live show in a radio studio
interviewing Patrick. Listen to their conversation and answer the question that
follows about the main idea.
Dialogue:
NICK:

We’re in the studio with someone everyone has been asking us to talk
to again. Patrick the biologist specializing in crocs.

VANESSA:

And Patrick our viewers have been bombarding us with questions
for you.

PATRICK:

Let’s hear them!

VANESSA:

What’s the difference between a crocodile and an alligator?

PATRICK:

They are cousins! But there are many differences between the two
species. For instance alligators have a larger and rounder snout and
they are usually darker skinned.

NICK:

What do they eat?

PATRICK:

Crocodiles ambush their dinner. They wait for fish or land animals
to come close and then they attack them. They rarely go hunting
because they can survive long periods without food.

VANESSA:

Patrick, do crocodiles cry crocodile tears?

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 15

1

PATRICK:

Crocodiles do produce tears but they don’t actually cry. The belief that
crocodiles weep when they eat a victim is a myth.

VANESSA:

What dangerous creatures can somebody come across on the
Queensland Beaches?

PATRICK:

Oh, Crocodiles, stingrays and sharks.

NICK:

With all this talk about dangerous creatures at Queensland Beaches
should tourists avoid the coastline?

PATRICK:

Well they shouldn't because the dangers are minimal if you take
the right precautions.

VANESSA:

I was there some years ago and I can tell you that no visit to
Queensland is complete without spending a couple of days at
one of the beautiful beaches. But what should campers do if they
see a crocodile?

PATRICK:

Do not feed it. Do not take a photograph. Just walk away. And don’t
forget to report crocodile sightings to local authorities.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 15

2

VANESSA:

Can you tell us a story of a crocodile attack?

PATRICK:

Yeah. Some years ago a woman fought off a crocodile with her
handbag! She was screaming and hitting the croc repeatedly on its
sensitive nose. It soon turned tail and fled! Crocs don’t like resistance
and they run away.

VANESSA:

Patrick, this has been fascinating, but unfortunately that’s all we’ve
got time for. Thanks a million for being here.

PATRICK:

It’s been a pleasure.

Now answer the following question…
What are the listeners interested in?
Crocodiles and the dangers found at Queensland beaches.

Now listen again to the dialogue in parts. After each part there will be 3 to 4
questions on the details...
Part 1
NICK: We’re in the studio with someone everyone has been asking us to talk to
again. Patrick the biologist specializing in crocs.
VANESSA: And Patrick our viewers have been bombarding us with questions for
you.
PATRICK: Let’s hear them!
VANESSA: What’s the difference between a crocodile and an alligator?
PATRICK: They are cousins! But there are many differences between the two
species. For instance alligators have a larger and rounder snout and they are usually
darker skinned.
NICK: What do they eat?

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 15

3

PATRICK: Crocodiles ambush their dinner. They wait for fish or land animals to
come close and then they attack them. They rarely go hunting because they can
survive long periods without food.
VANESSA: Patrick, do crocodiles cry crocodile tears?
PATRICK: Crocodiles do produce tears but they don’t actually cry. The belief that
crocodiles weep when they eat a victim is a myth.
VANESSA: What dangerous creatures can somebody come across on the
Queensland Beaches?
PATRICK: Oh, Crocodiles, stingrays and sharks.

Now get ready to answer the questions.
1. Vanessa says” our viewers have been bombarding us with questions?”
What does “bombard someone with questions” mean?
“Bombard someone with questions” means to ask someone a lot of questions.
2. Patrick says “Crocodiles ambush their dinner”. What does “ambush” mean?
“Ambush” means to attack someone by surprise. `
3. Vanessa says “do crocodiles cry crocodile tears?” What are” crocodile tears”?
“Crocodile tears” are false tears, when we cry but we don’t really feel sad.
Part 2
NICK: With all this talk about dangerous creatures at Queensland Beaches should
tourists avoid the coastline?
PATRICK: Well they shouldn't because the dangers are minimal if you take the
right precautions.
VANESSA: I was there some years ago and I can tell you that no visit to
Queensland is complete without spending a couple of days at one of the
beautiful beaches. But what should campers do if they see a crocodile?
PATRICK: Do not feed it. Do not take a photograph. Just walk away. And don’t
forget to report crocodile sightings to local authorities.
VANESSA: Can you tell us a story of a crocodile attack?
PATRICK: Yeah. Some years ago a woman fought off a crocodile attack with her
handbag! She was screaming and hitting the croc repeatedly on its sensitive nose. It
soon turned tail and fled! Crocs don’t like resistance and they run away.
VANESSA: Patrick, this has been fascinating, but unfortunately that’s all we’ve got
time for. Thanks a million for being here.
Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 15

4

PATRICK: It’s been a pleasure.

Now get ready to answer some questions…
1. Patrick says “The dangers are minimal “. What does he mean?
It is not very dangerous.
2. Vanessa says “No visit to Queensland is complete without spending a
couple of days at one of the beautiful beaches”. What does she mean?
Visitors must spend a couple of days on the beach if they visit Queensland.
3. Patrick says “a woman fought off a crocodile attack with her handbag!”. What
does “fight off” mean?
“Fight off” means to defend yourself from an attack of an animal or an illness.
Please visit our site at www.hau.gr to find the transcripts, explanations and activities.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 15

5

GLOSSARY
Ambush (verb): to suddenly attack a person or a group of people after hiding and
waiting for them.
E.g. Five soldiers died after their bus was ambushed on a country road.
Authorities (noun): a group of people with official responsibility for a particular
area of activity.
E.g. the health authority
Bombard (phrasal verb): to direct so many things at someone, especially to ask
them so many questions, that they find it difficult to deal with them.
E.g. The children bombarded her with questions.
Cousin (noun): a member of a group of people with similar origins.
E.g. Americans owe a great deal to their European cousins.
Precaution (noun): an action which is done to prevent something unpleasant or
dangerous happening.
E.g. Many people have been stockpiling food as a precaution against shortages.
Resist (verb): to fight against something or someone that is attacking you.
E.g. The soldiers resisted (the enemy attacks) for two days.
Resistance (noun): when something or someone resists.
E.g. resistance to disease
Snout (noun): the nose and mouth which stick out from the face of some animals.
E.g. a pig's snout
Turn tail: to turn around and run away, usually because you are frightened.
E.g. As soon as they saw we had guns, they turned tail and ran away.
Victim (noun): someone or something which has been hurt, damaged or killed or
has suffered, either because of the actions of someone or something else, or
because of illness or chance.
E.g. to donate money to victims of the fires
Weep (verb): to cry tears.
E.g. People in the street wept with joy when peace was announced.

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 15

6

ACTIVITIES
Activity 1

Practice using the words in the glossary. Choose the most appropriate word or
phrase from the glossary to complete the following sentences.
1. Government troops offered no
2. He was

by gunmen on his way to work.

3. She was the innocent
4. She

to the rebels.
of an arson attack.

buckets when Paul left.

5. She’s my second

. Our grandparents were brother and sister.

6. The horse pushed its

into my hand to eat the apple.

7. They failed to take the necessary
8. We have been

to avoid infection.

with letters of complaint

9. When they heard the sirens they

and ran away.

10. You should report stray dogs to the

.

Activity 2

Complete the following sentences about the movie Crocodile Dundee with the words
‘Although’ and ‘Despite’
1.

Sue Charlton had been a reporter stationed in New York she decided
to investigate a report she heard of a crocodile hunter who had his leg bitten off
by a crocodile.

2.

Mick had some bad scratch on his leg, a "love bite" as he calls it, his
leg was intact.

3.

the dangers of the Outback, Sue asks Mick to travel together out to
where the incident occurred.

4.

Dundee’s macho approach, and seemingly sexist opinions, the pair
becomes close, especially after Mick saves Sue from a crocodile attack.

5.

Mick hadn’t gone anywhere before in his life, he accepts Sue’s
invitation to visit New York with her.
(Adapted from Wikipedia)

Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 15

7

KEY TO ACTIVITIES
Activity 1.
1. resistance 2 ambushed 3. victim 4. wept 5. cousin 6. snout 7. precautions 8.
bombarded 9. turned tail 10. authorities
Activity 2.
Although Sue Charlton had been a reporter stationed in New York she decided to
investigate a report she heard of a crocodile hunter who had his leg bitten off by a
crocodile. Although Mick had some bad scratches on his leg—a "love bite" as he
calls it, his leg was intact. Despite the dangers of the Outback, Sue asks Mick to
travel together out to where the incident occurred. Despite Dundee’s macho
approach, and seemingly sexist opinions, the pair becomes close, especially after
Mick saves Sue from a crocodile attack. Although Mick hadn’t gone anywhere
before in his life, he accepts Sue’s invitation to visit New York with her.
Learning English Podcasts: Lesson 15

8

